＊	PRECIOUS BIBLE PROMISES
＊	PART ONE
＊	BLESSINGS PROMISED TO BELIEVERS
＊	CHAPTER 1
＊	PROMISES OF TEMPORAL BLESSINGS
＊	1. GENERAL PROMISES TO BELIEVERS
(Ps 84:11)	For Yahweh God is a sun and a shield. Yahweh will give grace and glory. He withholds no good thing from those who walk blamelessly.
(Ps 16:6)	The lines have fallen to me in pleasant places. Yes, I have a good inheritance.
(Eccl 8:12)	Though a sinner commits crimes a hundred times, and lives long, yet surely I know that it will be better with those who fear God, who are reverent before him.
(Isa 3:10)	Tell the righteous “Good!” For they shall eat the fruit of their deeds.
(Ps 58:11)	so that men shall say, “Most certainly there is a reward for the righteous. Most certainly there is a God who judges the earth.”
(Ps 5:12)	For you will bless the righteous. Yahweh, you will surround him with favor as with a shield.
(Ps 3:8)	Salvation belongs to Yahweh. May your blessing be on your people. Selah.
(Prov 21:21)	He who follows after righteousness and kindness finds life, righteousness, and honor.
(Prov 10:6)	Blessings are on the head of the righteous, but violence covers the mouth of the wicked.
(Prov 10:24)	What the wicked fear, will overtake them, but the desire of the righteous will be granted.
(Prov 10:28)	The prospect of the righteous is joy, but the hope of the wicked will perish.
(Prov 11:18)	Wicked people earn deceitful wages, but one who sows righteousness reaps a sure reward.
(Prov 11:19)	He who is truly righteous gets life. He who pursues evil gets death.
(Prov 11:28)	He who trusts in his riches will fall, but the righteous shall flourish as the green leaf.
(Prov 3:32)	For the perverse is an abomination to Yahweh, but his friendship is with the upright.
(Prov 12:2)	A good man shall obtain favor from Yahweh, but he will condemn a man of wicked plans.
(Prov 13:9)	The light of the righteous shines brightly, but the lamp of the wicked is snuffed out.
(Prov 13:21)	Misfortune pursues sinners, but prosperity rewards the righteous.
(Ps 23:6)	Surely goodness and loving kindness shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in Yahweh’s house forever.
(Rom 8:32)	He who didn’t spare his own Son, but delivered him up for us all, how would he not also with him freely give us all things?
(1Cor 3:21)	Therefore let no one boast in men. For all things are yours,
(1Cor 3:22)	whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things to come. All are yours,
(1Tim 4:8)	For bodily exercise has some value, but godliness has value in all things, having the promise of the life which is now, and of that which is to come.
＊	2. TEMPORAL BLESSINGS IN GENERAL
(Ps 23:1)	A Psalm by David. Yahweh is my shepherd: I shall lack nothing.
(Ps 23:5)	You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My cup runs over.
(Ps 34:9)	Oh fear Yahweh, you his saints, for there is no lack with those who fear him.
(Ps 34:10)	The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger, but those who seek Yahweh shall not lack any good thing.
(Matt 6:33)	But seek first God’s Kingdom, and his righteousness; and all these things will be given to you as well.
(Phil 4:19)	My God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
(1Tim 6:6)	But godliness with contentment is great gain.
(1Tim 6:17)	Charge those who are rich in this present world that they not be arrogant, nor have their hope set on the uncertainty of riches, but on the living God, who richly provides us with everything to enjoy;
＊	3. FOOD AND RAIMENT
＊	FOOD
(Ps 37:3)	Trust in Yahweh, and do good. Dwell in the land, and enjoy safe pasture.
(Ps 111:5)	He has given food to those who fear him. He always remembers his covenant.
(Ps 132:15)	I will abundantly bless her provision. I will satisfy her poor with bread.
(Ps 147:14)	He makes peace in your borders. He fills you with the finest of the wheat.
(Prov 13:25)	The righteous one eats to the satisfying of his soul, but the belly of the wicked goes hungry.
(Matt 6:26)	See the birds of the sky, that they don’t sow, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns. Your heavenly Father feeds them. Aren’t you of much more value than they?
(Joel 2:26)	You will have plenty to eat, and be satisfied, and will praise the name of Yahweh, your God, who has dealt wondrously with you; and my people will never again be disappointed.
(Isa 65:13)	Therefore the Lord Yahweh says, “Behold, my servants will eat, but you will be hungry; behold, my servants will drink, but you will be thirsty. Behold, my servants will rejoice, but you will be disappointed;
＊	RAIMENT
(Matt 6:25)	Therefore I tell you, don’t be anxious for your life: what you will eat, or what you will drink; nor yet for your body, what you will wear. Isn’t life more than food, and the body more than clothing?
(Matt 6:30)	But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today exists, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, won’t he much more clothe you, you of little faith?
(Matt 6:31)	“Therefore don’t be anxious, saying, ‘What will we eat?’, ‘What will we drink?’ or, ‘With what will we be clothed?’
(Matt 6:32)	For the Gentiles seek after all these things; for your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things.
＊	4. LONG LIFE AND HEALTH
＊	LONG LIFE
(Deut 5:33)	You shall walk in all the way which Yahweh your God has commanded you, that you may live and that it may be well with you, and that you may prolong your days in the land which you shall possess.
(Deut 6:2)	that you might fear Yahweh your God, to keep all his statutes and his commandments, which I command you—you, your son, and your son’s son, all the days of your life; and that your days may be prolonged.
(Job 5:26)	You will come to your grave in a full age, like a shock of grain comes in its season.
(Ps 34:12)	Who is someone who desires life, and loves many days, that he may see good?
(Ps 34:14)	Depart from evil, and do good. Seek peace, and pursue it.
(Ps 91:16)	I will satisfy him with long life, and show him my salvation.”
(Prov 3:2)	for they will add to you length of days, years of life, and peace.
(Prov 3:16)	Length of days is in her right hand. In her left hand are riches and honor.
(Prov 9:11)	For by me your days will be multiplied. The years of your life will be increased.
＊	HEALTH
(Ps 103:3)	who forgives all your sins, who heals all your diseases,
(Ps 103:5)	who satisfies your desire with good things, so that your youth is renewed like the eagle’s.
(Prov 3:7)	Don’t be wise in your own eyes. Fear Yahweh, and depart from evil.
(Prov 3:8)	It will be health to your body, and nourishment to your bones.
(Prov 4:22)	For they are life to those who find them, and health to their whole body.
＊	5. SAFETY UNDER THE DIVINE PROTECTION
(Deut 33:12)	About Benjamin he said, “The beloved of Yahweh will dwell in safety by him. He covers him all day long. He dwells between his shoulders.”
(Prov 18:10)	Yahweh’s name is a strong tower: the righteous run to him, and are safe.
(Ps 16:8)	I have set Yahweh always before me. Because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved.
(Ps 112:7)	He will not be afraid of evil news. His heart is steadfast, trusting in Yahweh.
(1Pet 3:13)	Now who will harm you if you become imitators of that which is good?
(Job 4:7)	“Remember, now, whoever perished, being innocent? Or where were the upright cut off?
(Job 11:18)	You will be secure, because there is hope. Yes, you will search, and will take your rest in safety.
(Job 5:23)	For you will be allied with the stones of the field. The animals of the field will be at peace with you.
(Hos 2:18)	In that day I will make a covenant for them with the animals of the field, and with the birds of the sky, and with the creeping things of the ground. I will break the bow, the sword, and the battle out of the land, and will make them lie down safely.
(Ezek 34:25)	“‘I will make with them a covenant of peace, and will cause evil animals to cease out of the land. They will dwell securely in the wilderness, and sleep in the woods.
(Ezek 34:28)	They will no more be a prey to the nations, neither will the animals of the earth devour them; but they will dwell securely, and no one will make them afraid.
(Gen 9:2)	The fear of you and the dread of you will be on every animal of the earth, and on every bird of the sky. Everything that moves along the ground, and all the fish of the sea, are delivered into your hand.
(Job 11:18)	You will be secure, because there is hope. Yes, you will search, and will take your rest in safety.
(Job 11:19)	Also you will lie down, and no one will make you afraid. Yes, many will court your favor.
(Ps 4:8)	In peace I will both lay myself down and sleep, for you, Yahweh alone, make me live in safety.
(Ps 127:2)	It is vain for you to rise up early, to stay up late, eating the bread of toil, for he gives sleep to his loved ones.
(Prov 3:24)	When you lie down, you will not be afraid. Yes, you will lie down, and your sleep will be sweet.
(1Sam 2:9)	He will keep the feet of his holy ones, but the wicked will be put to silence in darkness; for no man will prevail by strength.
(Ps 27:1)	By David. Yahweh is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? Yahweh is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid?
(Ps 34:20)	He protects all of his bones. Not one of them is broken.
(Ps 91:1)	He who dwells in the secret place of the Most High will rest in the shadow of the Almighty.
(Ps 91:2)	I will say of Yahweh, “He is my refuge and my fortress; my God, in whom I trust.”
(Ps 91:4)	He will cover you with his feathers. Under his wings you will take refuge. His faithfulness is your shield and rampart.
(Ps 91:10)	no evil shall happen to you, neither shall any plague come near your dwelling.
(Ps 121:1)	A Song of Ascents. I will lift up my eyes to the hills. Where does my help come from?
(Ps 121:8)	Yahweh will keep your going out and your coming in, from this time forward, and forever more.
(Ps 124:8)	Our help is in Yahweh’s name, who made heaven and earth.
(Ps 125:2)	As the mountains surround Jerusalem, so Yahweh surrounds his people from this time forward and forever more.
(Prov 3:23)	Then you shall walk in your way securely. Your foot won’t stumble.
(Prov 1:33)	But whoever listens to me will dwell securely, and will be at ease, without fear of harm.”
(Isa 4:5)	Yahweh will create over the whole habitation of Mount Zion and over her assemblies, a cloud and smoke by day, and the shining of a flaming fire by night, for over all the glory will be a canopy.
(Isa 4:6)	There will be a pavilion for a shade in the daytime from the heat, and for a refuge and for a shelter from storm and from rain.
(Isa 33:16)	he will dwell on high. His place of defense will be the fortress of rocks. His bread will be supplied. His waters will be sure.
(Isa 43:2)	When you pass through the waters, I will be with you, and through the rivers, they will not overflow you. When you walk through the fire, you will not be burned, and flame will not scorch you.
(Isa 43:3)	For I am Yahweh your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. I have given Egypt as your ransom, Ethiopia and Seba in your place.
(Isa 27:3)	I, Yahweh, am its keeper. I will water it every moment. Lest anyone damage it, I will keep it night and day.
(Zech 2:5)	For I,’ says Yahweh, ‘will be to her a wall of fire around it, and I will be the glory in the middle of her.
＊	6. PROMISES OF PEACE
(Lev 26:6)	“‘I will give peace in the land, and you shall lie down, and no one will make you afraid. I will remove evil animals out of the land, neither shall the sword go through your land.
(Ps 29:11)	Yahweh will give strength to his people. Yahweh will bless his people with peace.
(Ps 125:5)	But as for those who turn away to their crooked ways, Yahweh will lead them away with the workers of iniquity. Peace be on Israel.
(Ps 119:165)	Those who love your law have great peace. Nothing causes them to stumble.
(Ps 147:14)	He makes peace in your borders. He fills you with the finest of the wheat.
(Isa 26:12)	Yahweh, you will ordain peace for us, for you have also done all our work for us.
(Isa 32:18)	My people will live in a peaceful habitation, in safe dwellings, and in quiet resting places,
＊	7. DIRECTION
(Ps 37:23)	A man’s steps are established by Yahweh. He delights in his way.
(Ps 48:14)	For this God is our God forever and ever. He will be our guide even to death.
(Ps 73:24)	You will guide me with your counsel, and afterward receive me to glory.
(Prov 3:6)	In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make your paths straight.
(Prov 11:5)	The righteousness of the blameless will direct his way, but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.
(Prov 16:9)	A man’s heart plans his course, but Yahweh directs his steps.
(Isa 28:26)	For his God instructs him in right judgment and teaches him.
(Isa 42:16)	I will bring the blind by a way that they don’t know. I will lead them in paths that they don’t know. I will make darkness light before them, and crooked places straight. I will do these things, and I will not forsake them.
＊	8. HONOR
(Deut 28:13)	Yahweh will make you the head, and not the tail. You will be above only, and you will not be beneath, if you listen to the commandments of Yahweh your God which I command you today, to observe and to do,
(Ps 112:6)	For he will never be shaken. The righteous will be remembered forever.
(Ps 112:9)	He has dispersed, he has given to the poor. His righteousness endures forever. His horn will be exalted with honor.
(1Sam 2:30)	“Therefore Yahweh, the God of Israel, says, ‘I said indeed that your house and the house of your father should walk before me forever.’ But now Yahweh says, ‘Far be it from me; for those who honor me I will honor, and those who despise me will be cursed.
(Prov 22:4)	The result of humility and the fear of Yahweh is wealth, honor, and life.
(Prov 3:16)	Length of days is in her right hand. In her left hand are riches and honor.
(Prov 4:8)	Esteem her, and she will exalt you. She will bring you to honor when you embrace her.
(Prov 10:7)	The memory of the righteous is blessed, but the name of the wicked will rot.
(Ps 91:14)	“Because he has set his love on me, therefore I will deliver him. I will set him on high, because he has known my name.
(Ps 91:15)	He will call on me, and I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will deliver him, and honor him.
(John 12:26)	If anyone serves me, let him follow me. Where I am, there my servant will also be. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.
(Rev 3:9)	Behold, I give some of the synagogue of Satan, of those who say they are Jews, and they are not, but lie—behold, I will make them to come and worship before your feet, and to know that I have loved you.
＊	9. SUCCESS AND PROSPERITY
(Ps 1:3)	He will be like a tree planted by the streams of water, that produces its fruit in its season, whose leaf also does not wither. Whatever he does shall prosper.
(Ps 37:5)	Commit your way to Yahweh. Trust also in him, and he will do this:
(Ps 128:2)	For you will eat the labor of your hands. You will be happy, and it will be well with you.
(Ps 57:2)	I cry out to God Most High, to God who accomplishes my requests for me.
(Isa 65:21)	They will build houses and inhabit them. They will plant vineyards and eat their fruit.
(Isa 65:23)	They will not labor in vain nor give birth for calamity; for they are the offspring of Yahweh’s blessed and their descendants with them.
(Job 11:15)	Surely then you will lift up your face without spot; Yes, you will be steadfast, and will not fear:
(Job 11:17)	Life will be clearer than the noonday. Though there is darkness, it will be as the morning.
(Job 22:28)	You will also decree a thing, and it will be established to you. Light will shine on your ways.
＊	10. PLENTY AND RICHES
(Deut 11:14)	that I will give the rain for your land in its season, the early rain and the latter rain, that you may gather in your grain, your new wine, and your oil.
(Deut 11:15)	I will give grass in your fields for your livestock, and you shall eat and be full.
(Deut 28:12)	Yahweh will open to you his good treasure in the sky, to give the rain of your land in its season, and to bless all the work of your hand. You will lend to many nations, and you will not borrow.
(Deut 30:9)	Yahweh your God will make you prosperous in all the work of your hand, in the fruit of your body, in the fruit of your livestock, and in the fruit of your ground, for good; for Yahweh will again rejoice over you for good, as he rejoiced over your fathers,
(Deut 28:11)	Yahweh will grant you abundant prosperity in the fruit of your body, in the fruit of your livestock, and in the fruit of your ground, in the land which Yahweh swore to your fathers to give you.
(Job 22:24)	Lay your treasure in the dust, the gold of Ophir among the stones of the brooks.
(Job 22:25)	The Almighty will be your treasure, and precious silver to you.
(Ps 107:38)	He blesses them also, so that they are multiplied greatly. He doesn’t allow their livestock to decrease.
(Ps 112:3)	Wealth and riches are in his house. His righteousness endures forever.
(Prov 3:16)	Length of days is in her right hand. In her left hand are riches and honor.
(Prov 8:18)	With me are riches, honor, enduring wealth, and prosperity.
(Prov 8:19)	My fruit is better than gold, yes, than fine gold, my yield than choice silver.
(Prov 15:6)	In the house of the righteous is much treasure, but the income of the wicked brings trouble.
(Isa 30:23)	He will give the rain for your seed, with which you will sow the ground; and bread of the increase of the ground will be rich and plentiful. In that day, your livestock will feed in large pastures.
＊	11. OF CHILDREN
(Deut 7:13)	He will love you, bless you, and multiply you. He will also bless the fruit of your body and the fruit of your ground, your grain and your new wine and your oil, the increase of your livestock and the young of your flock, in the land which he swore to your fathers to give you.
(Deut 30:9)	Yahweh your God will make you prosperous in all the work of your hand, in the fruit of your body, in the fruit of your livestock, and in the fruit of your ground, for good; for Yahweh will again rejoice over you for good, as he rejoiced over your fathers,
(Job 5:25)	You will know also that your offspring [5:25 or, seed] will be great, Your offspring as the grass of the earth.
(Ps 127:3)	Behold, children are a heritage of Yahweh. The fruit of the womb is his reward.
(Ps 127:5)	Happy is the man who has his quiver full of them. They won’t be disappointed when they speak with their enemies in the gate.
(Ps 115:14)	May Yahweh increase you more and more, you and your children.
＊	12. A BLESSING UPON ALL THE BELIEVER HAS
(Exod 23:25)	You shall serve Yahweh your God, and he will bless your bread and your water, and I will take sickness away from among you.
(Deut 26:11)	You shall rejoice in all the good which Yahweh your God has given to you, and to your house, you, and the Levite, and the foreigner who is among you.
(Deut 28:3)	You shall be blessed in the city, and you shall be blessed in the field.
(Deut 28:6)	You shall be blessed when you come in, and you shall be blessed when you go out.
(Deut 28:8)	Yahweh will command the blessing on you in your barns, and in all that you put your hand to. He will bless you in the land which Yahweh your God gives you.
(Ps 37:16)	Better is a little that the righteous has, than the abundance of many wicked.
(Prov 10:22)	Yahweh’s blessing brings wealth, and he adds no trouble to it.
(Prov 15:16)	Better is little, with the fear of Yahweh, than great treasure with trouble.
(Eccl 2:26)	For to the man who pleases him, God gives wisdom, knowledge, and joy; but to the sinner he gives travail, to gather and to heap up, that he may give to him who pleases God. This also is vanity and a chasing after wind.
(Eccl 3:13)	Also that every man should eat and drink, and enjoy good in all his labor, is the gift of God.
(Eccl 5:19)	Every man also to whom God has given riches and wealth, and has given him power to eat of it, and to take his portion, and to rejoice in his labor—this is the gift of God.
(Eccl 5:20)	For he shall not often reflect on the days of his life; because God occupies him with the joy of his heart.
＊	13. A BLESSING UPON THE CHILDREN OF BELIEVERS
(Deut 4:40)	You shall keep his statutes and his commandments which I command you today, that it may go well with you and with your children after you, and that you may prolong your days in the land which Yahweh your God gives you for all time.
(Deut 5:29)	Oh that there were such a heart in them that they would fear me and keep all my commandments always, that it might be well with them and with their children forever!
(Prov 13:22)	A good man leaves an inheritance to his children’s children, but the wealth of the sinner is stored for the righteous.
(Prov 14:26)	In the fear of Yahweh is a secure fortress, and he will be a refuge for his children.
(Prov 11:21)	Most certainly, the evil man will not be unpunished, but the offspring [11:21 or, seed] of the righteous will be delivered.
(Prov 20:7)	A righteous man walks in integrity. Blessed are his children after him.
(Ps 102:28)	The children of your servants will continue. Their offspring will be established before you.”
(Ps 112:2)	His offspring will be mighty in the land. The generation of the upright will be blessed.
(Ps 25:13)	His soul will dwell at ease. His offspring will inherit the land.
(Ps 37:25)	I have been young, and now am old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his children begging for bread.
(Ps 37:26)	All day long he deals graciously, and lends. His offspring is blessed.
(Ps 147:13)	For he has strengthened the bars of your gates. He has blessed your children within you.
(Jer 32:39)	I will give them one heart and one way, that they may fear me forever, for their good, and the good of their children after them.
＊	14. A BLESSING UPON THE FAMILIES OF THE GOOD
(Job 5:24)	You will know that your tent is in peace. You will visit your fold, and will miss nothing.
(Job 8:6)	If you were pure and upright, surely now he would awaken for you, and make the habitation of your righteousness prosperous.
(Job 8:7)	Though your beginning was small, yet your latter end would greatly increase.
(Ps 128:3)	Your wife will be as a fruitful vine in the innermost parts of your house, your children like olive plants around your table.
(Ps 128:6)	Yes, may you see your children’s children. Peace be upon Israel.
(Prov 3:33)	Yahweh’s curse is in the house of the wicked, but he blesses the habitation of the righteous.
(Prov 12:7)	The wicked are overthrown, and are no more, but the house of the righteous shall stand.
(Prov 14:11)	The house of the wicked will be overthrown, but the tent of the upright will flourish.
＊	Chapter 2
＊	PROMISES RELATING TO THE TROUBLES OF LIFE
＊	1. IN GENERAL
＊	PRESERVATION FROM TROUBLE
(Ps 32:6)	For this, let everyone who is godly pray to you in a time when you may be found. Surely when the great waters overflow, they shall not reach to him.
(Ps 32:7)	You are my hiding place. You will preserve me from trouble. You will surround me with songs of deliverance. Selah.
(Job 5:19)	He will deliver you in six troubles; yes, in seven no evil will touch you.
(Ps 31:23)	Oh love Yahweh, all you his saints! Yahweh preserves the faithful, and fully recompenses him who behaves arrogantly.
(Ps 91:10)	no evil shall happen to you, neither shall any plague come near your dwelling.
(Prov 12:21)	No mischief shall happen to the righteous, but the wicked shall be filled with evil.
(Prov 15:19)	The way of the sluggard is like a thorn patch, but the path of the upright is a highway.
＊	DELIVERANCE FROM TROUBLE
(Job 8:20)	“Behold, God will not cast away a blameless man, neither will he uphold the evildoers.
(Job 8:21)	He will still fill your mouth with laughter, your lips with shouting.
(Job 11:16)	for you will forget your misery. You will remember it like waters that have passed away.
(Job 36:16)	Yes, he would have allured you out of distress, into a wide place, where there is no restriction. That which is set on your table would be full of fatness.
(Ps 30:5)	For his anger is but for a moment. His favor is for a lifetime. Weeping may stay for the night, but joy comes in the morning.
(Ps 34:19)	Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but Yahweh delivers him out of them all.
(Ps 42:11)	Why are you in despair, my soul? Why are you disturbed within me? Hope in God! For I shall still praise him, the saving help of my countenance, and my God.
(Ps 68:13)	while you sleep among the camp fires, the wings of a dove sheathed with silver, her feathers with shining gold.
(Ps 71:20)	You, who have shown us many and bitter troubles, you will let me live. You will bring us up again from the depths of the earth.
(Ps 18:27)	For you will save the afflicted people, but the arrogant eyes you will bring down.
(Ps 18:28)	For you will light my lamp, Yahweh. My God will light up my darkness.
(Ps 146:8)	Yahweh opens the eyes of the blind. Yahweh raises up those who are bowed down. Yahweh loves the righteous.
(Ps 107:19)	Then they cry to Yahweh in their trouble, he saves them out of their distresses.
(Ps 126:5)	Those who sow in tears will reap in joy.
(Ps 126:6)	He who goes out weeping, carrying seed for sowing, will certainly come again with joy, carrying his sheaves.
(Prov 11:8)	A righteous person is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked takes his place.
(Prov 12:13)	An evil man is trapped by sinfulness of lips, but the righteous shall come out of trouble.
(Prov 24:16)	for a righteous man falls seven times and rises up again; but the wicked are overthrown by calamity.
(Jer 29:11)	For I know the thoughts that I think toward you,” says Yahweh, “thoughts of peace, and not of evil, to give you hope and a future.
(Jer 31:12)	They will come and sing in the height of Zion, and will flow to the goodness of Yahweh, to the grain, to the new wine, to the oil, and to the young of the flock and of the herd. Their soul will be as a watered garden. They will not sorrow any more at all.
(Jer 31:13)	Then the virgin will rejoice in the dance; the young men and the old together; for I will turn their mourning into joy, and will comfort them, and make them rejoice from their sorrow.
(Hos 6:1)	“Come! Let’s return to Yahweh; for he has torn us to pieces, and he will heal us; he has injured us, and he will bind up our wounds.
＊	SUPPORT IN TROUBLE
(Ps 9:9)	Yahweh will also be a high tower for the oppressed; a high tower in times of trouble.
(Ps 22:24)	For he has not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted, Neither has he hidden his face from him; but when he cried to him, he heard.
(Ps 27:10)	When my father and my mother forsake me, then Yahweh will take me up.
(Ps 27:14)	Wait for Yahweh. Be strong, and let your heart take courage. Yes, wait for Yahweh.
(Ps 37:24)	Though he stumble, he shall not fall, for Yahweh holds him up with his hand.
(Ps 37:39)	But the salvation of the righteous is from Yahweh. He is their stronghold in the time of trouble.
(Ps 18:2)	Yahweh is my rock, my fortress, and my deliverer; my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge; my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my high tower.
(Ps 46:1)	For the Chief Musician. By the sons of Korah. According to Alamoth. [46:0 Alamoth is a musical term.] God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble.
(Ps 46:3)	though its waters roar and are troubled, though the mountains tremble with their swelling. Selah.
(Ps 55:22)	Cast your burden on Yahweh and he will sustain you. He will never allow the righteous to be moved.
(Ps 31:7)	I will be glad and rejoice in your loving kindness, for you have seen my affliction. You have known my soul in adversities.
(Exod 3:7)	Yahweh said, “I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt, and have heard their cry because of their taskmasters, for I know their sorrows.
(Ps 41:1)	For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. Blessed is he who considers the poor. Yahweh will deliver him in the day of evil.
(Ps 71:3)	Be to me a rock of refuge to which I may always go. Give the command to save me, for you are my rock and my fortress.
(Ps 112:4)	Light dawns in the darkness for the upright, gracious, merciful, and righteous.
(Ps 136:23)	who remembered us in our low estate; for his loving kindness endures forever;
(Ps 138:7)	Though I walk in the middle of trouble, you will revive me. You will stretch out your hand against the wrath of my enemies. Your right hand will save me.
(Ps 73:26)	My flesh and my heart fails, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever.
(Ps 145:14)	Yahweh upholds all who fall, and raises up all those who are bowed down.
(Isa 25:4)	For you have been a stronghold to the poor, a stronghold to the needy in his distress, a refuge from the storm, a shade from the heat, when the blast of the dreaded ones is like a storm against the wall.
(Isa 27:8)	In measure, when you send them away, you contend with them. He has removed them with his rough blast in the day of the east wind.
(Job 34:23)	For he doesn’t need to consider a man further, that he should go before God in judgment.
(Isa 50:10)	Who among you fears Yahweh and obeys the voice of his servant? He who walks in darkness and has no light, let him trust in Yahweh’s name, and rely on his God.
(Lam 3:31)	For the Lord will not cast off forever.
(Lam 3:33)	For he does not afflict willingly, nor grieve the children of men.
(Jer 16:19)	Yahweh, my strength, and my stronghold, and my refuge in the day of affliction, the nations will come to you from the ends of the earth, and will say, “Our fathers have inherited nothing but lies, vanity and things in which there is no profit.
(Jer 30:11)	For I am with you, says Yahweh, to save you; for I will make a full end of all the nations where I have scattered you, but I will not make a full end of you; but I will correct you in measure, and will in no way leave you unpunished.”
(Mic 7:8)	Don’t rejoice against me, my enemy. When I fall, I will arise. When I sit in darkness, Yahweh will be a light to me.
(Mic 7:9)	I will bear the indignation of Yahweh, because I have sinned against him, until he pleads my case, and executes judgment for me. He will bring me out to the light. I will see his righteousness.
(Nah 1:7)	Yahweh is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble; and he knows those who take refuge in him.
(Matt 11:28)	“Come to me, all you who labor and are heavily burdened, and I will give you rest.
(John 16:33)	I have told you these things, that in me you may have peace. In the world you have trouble; but cheer up! I have overcome the world.”
(2Cor 1:5)	For as the sufferings of Christ abound to us, even so our comfort also abounds through Christ.
(2Cor 4:8)	We are pressed on every side, yet not crushed; perplexed, yet not to despair;
(2Cor 4:9)	pursued, yet not forsaken; struck down, yet not destroyed;
＊	2. PROMISES RELATING TO SICKNESS, OLD AGE, ETC.
＊	DELIVERANCE FROM SICKNESS
(Exod 23:25)	You shall serve Yahweh your God, and he will bless your bread and your water, and I will take sickness away from among you.
(Exod 15:26)	He said, “If you will diligently listen to Yahweh your God’s voice, and will do that which is right in his eyes, and will pay attention to his commandments, and keep all his statutes, I will put none of the diseases on you, which I have put on the Egyptians; for I am Yahweh who heals you.”
(Job 33:24)	then God is gracious to him, and says, ‘Deliver him from going down to the pit, I have found a ransom.’
(Job 33:26)	He prays to God, and he is favorable to him, so that he sees his face with joy. He restores to man his righteousness.
(Job 33:28)	He has redeemed my soul from going into the pit. My life will see the light.’
(Ps 91:3)	For he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler, and from the deadly pestilence.
(Ps 91:5)	You shall not be afraid of the terror by night, nor of the arrow that flies by day,
(Ps 91:6)	nor of the pestilence that walks in darkness, nor of the destruction that wastes at noonday.
(Ps 103:3)	who forgives all your sins, who heals all your diseases,
(Deut 7:15)	Yahweh will take away from you all sickness; and he will put none of the evil diseases of Egypt, which you know, on you, but will lay them on all those who hate you.
(Jer 33:6)	‘Behold, I will bring it health and cure, and I will cure them; and I will reveal to them abundance of peace and truth.
＊	SUPPORT IN SICKNESS
(Ps 41:3)	Yahweh will sustain him on his sickbed, and restore him from his bed of illness.
(Ps 116:6)	Yahweh preserves the simple. I was brought low, and he saved me.
(1Tim 2:15)	but she will be saved through her childbearing, if they continue in faith, love, and sanctification with sobriety.
(Deut 7:13)	He will love you, bless you, and multiply you. He will also bless the fruit of your body and the fruit of your ground, your grain and your new wine and your oil, the increase of your livestock and the young of your flock, in the land which he swore to your fathers to give you.
(Gen 49:25)	even by the God of your father, who will help you, by the Almighty, who will bless you, with blessings of heaven above, blessings of the deep that lies below, blessings of the breasts, and of the womb.
＊	IN OLD AGE
(Ps 71:9)	Don’t reject me in my old age. Don’t forsake me when my strength fails.
(Isa 46:4)	Even to old age I am he, and even to gray hairs I will carry you. I have made, and I will bear. Yes, I will carry, and will deliver.
(Prov 16:31)	Gray hair is a crown of glory. It is attained by a life of righteousness.
＊	3. DELIVERANCE FROM FAMINE AND WANT
(Job 5:20)	In famine he will redeem you from death; in war, from the power of the sword.
(Job 5:22)	You will laugh at destruction and famine, neither will you be afraid of the animals of the earth.
(Ps 33:18)	Behold, Yahweh’s eye is on those who fear him, on those who hope in his loving kindness,
(Ps 33:19)	to deliver their soul from death, to keep them alive in famine.
(Ps 37:19)	They shall not be disappointed in the time of evil. In the days of famine they shall be satisfied.
(Ps 146:7)	who executes justice for the oppressed; who gives food to the hungry. Yahweh frees the prisoners.
(Isa 41:17)	The poor and needy seek water, and there is none. Their tongue fails for thirst. I, Yahweh, will answer them. I, the God of Israel, will not forsake them.
(Ezek 36:29)	I will save you from all your uncleanness. I will call for the grain, and will multiply it, and lay no famine on you.
(Ezek 36:30)	I will multiply the fruit of the tree and the increase of the field, that you may receive no more the reproach of famine among the nations.
(Zech 10:1)	Ask of Yahweh rain in the spring time, Yahweh who makes storm clouds, and he gives rain showers to everyone for the plants in the field.
(Ps 107:9)	For he satisfies the longing soul. He fills the hungry soul with good.
(Hab 3:17)	For though the fig tree doesn’t flourish, nor fruit be in the vines; the labor of the olive fails, the fields yield no food; the flocks are cut off from the fold, and there is no herd in the stalls:
(Hab 3:18)	yet I will rejoice in Yahweh. I will be joyful in the God of my salvation!
(Matt 4:4)	But he answered, “It is written, ‘Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of God’s mouth.’” [4:4 Deuteronomy 8:3 ]
＊	4. DELIVERANCE FROM WAR AND ENEMIES
＊	FROM WAR
(Deut 20:4)	for Yahweh your God is he who goes with you, to fight for you against your enemies, to save you.”
(Deut 23:14)	for Yahweh your God walks in the middle of your camp, to deliver you, and to give up your enemies before you. Therefore your camp shall be holy, that he may not see an unclean thing in you, and turn away from you.
(Job 5:20)	In famine he will redeem you from death; in war, from the power of the sword.
(Ps 60:12)	Through God we will do valiantly, for it is he who will tread down our adversaries.
(2Chr 13:12)	Behold, God is with us at our head, and his priests with the trumpets of alarm to sound an alarm against you. Children of Israel, don’t fight against Yahweh, the God of your fathers; for you will not prosper.”
(Prov 3:25)	Don’t be afraid of sudden fear, neither of the desolation of the wicked, when it comes;
(Prov 3:26)	for Yahweh will be your confidence, and will keep your foot from being taken.
(Isa 41:11)	Behold, all those who are incensed against you will be disappointed and confounded. Those who strive with you will be like nothing, and shall perish.
(Isa 41:12)	You will seek them, and won’t find them, even those who contend with you. Those who war against you will be as nothing, as a non-existent thing.
(Jer 39:17)	But I will deliver you in that day,” says Yahweh; “and you will not be given into the hand of the men of whom you are afraid.
(Jer 39:18)	For I will surely save you, and you won’t fall by the sword, but you will escape with your life; because you have put your trust in me,” says Yahweh.’”
＊	FROM ENEMIES
(2Kgs 6:16)	He answered, “Don’t be afraid; for those who are with us are more than those who are with them.”
(2Chr 14:11)	Asa cried to Yahweh his God, and said, “Yahweh, there is no one besides you to help, between the mighty and him who has no strength. Help us, Yahweh our God; for we rely on you, and in your name are we come against this multitude. Yahweh, you are our God. Don’t let man prevail against you.”
(2Kgs 17:39)	But you shall fear Yahweh your God, and he will deliver you out of the hand of all your enemies.”
(Ps 17:7)	Show your marvelous loving kindness, you who save those who take refuge by your right hand from their enemies.
(Ps 27:5)	For in the day of trouble, he will keep me secretly in his pavilion. In the secret place of his tabernacle, he will hide me. He will lift me up on a rock.
(Ps 27:6)	Now my head will be lifted up above my enemies around me. I will offer sacrifices of joy in his tent. I will sing, yes, I will sing praises to Yahweh.
(Ps 37:32)	The wicked watch the righteous, and seek to kill him.
(Ps 37:33)	Yahweh will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him when he is judged.
(Ps 37:40)	Yahweh helps them and rescues them. He rescues them from the wicked and saves them, because they have taken refuge in him.
(Ps 97:10)	You who love Yahweh, hate evil! He preserves the souls of his saints. He delivers them out of the hand of the wicked.
(Ps 112:8)	His heart is established. He will not be afraid in the end when he sees his adversaries.
(Ps 118:7)	Yahweh is on my side among those who help me. Therefore I will look in triumph at those who hate me.
(Ps 125:3)	For the scepter of wickedness won’t remain over the allotment of the righteous; so that the righteous won’t use their hands to do evil.
(Job 8:22)	Those who hate you will be clothed with shame. The tent of the wicked will be no more.”
(Prov 16:7)	When a man’s ways please Yahweh, he makes even his enemies to be at peace with him.
(Isa 25:5)	As the heat in a dry place you will bring down the noise of strangers; as the heat by the shade of a cloud, the song of the dreaded ones will be brought low.
(Isa 54:15)	Behold, they may gather together, but not by me. Whoever gathers together against you will fall because of you.
(Isa 54:17)	No weapon that is formed against you will prevail; and you will condemn every tongue that rises against you in judgment. This is the heritage of Yahweh’s servants, and their righteousness is of me,” says Yahweh.
(Deut 28:7)	Yahweh will cause your enemies who rise up against you to be struck before you. They will come out against you one way, and will flee before you seven ways.
(Luke 18:7)	Won’t God avenge his chosen ones who are crying out to him day and night, and yet he exercises patience with them?
(Luke 18:8)	I tell you that he will avenge them quickly. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on the earth?”
(Acts 18:10)	for I am with you, and no one will attack you to harm you, for I have many people in this city.”
(Heb 13:6)	So that with good courage we say, “The Lord is my helper. I will not fear. What can man do to me?” [13:6 Psalm 118:6-7 ]
(Ps 118:6)	Yahweh is on my side. I will not be afraid. What can man do to me?
(Luke 1:71)	salvation from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us;
(Luke 1:74)	to grant to us that we, being delivered out of the hand of our enemies, should serve him without fear,
(Luke 1:75)	in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life.
＊	5. FROM OPPRESSION AND INJUSTICE
(Exod 22:26)	If you take your neighbor’s garment as collateral, you shall restore it to him before the sun goes down,
(Exod 22:27)	for that is his only covering, it is his garment for his skin. What would he sleep in? It will happen, when he cries to me, that I will hear, for I am gracious.
(Ps 12:5)	“Because of the oppression of the weak and because of the groaning of the needy, I will now arise,” says Yahweh; “I will set him in safety from those who malign him.”
(Ps 35:10)	All my bones shall say, “Yahweh, who is like you, who delivers the poor from him who is too strong for him; yes, the poor and the needy from him who robs him?”
(Ps 72:4)	He will judge the poor of the people. He will save the children of the needy, and will break the oppressor in pieces.
(Ps 72:14)	He will redeem their soul from oppression and violence. Their blood will be precious in his sight.
(Ps 109:31)	For he will stand at the right hand of the needy, to save him from those who judge his soul.
(Ps 146:7)	who executes justice for the oppressed; who gives food to the hungry. Yahweh frees the prisoners.
(Eccl 5:8)	If you see the oppression of the poor, and the violent taking away of justice and righteousness in a district, don’t marvel at the matter, for one official is eyed by a higher one, and there are officials over them.
(Isa 54:14)	You will be established in righteousness. You will be far from oppression, for you will not be afraid, and far from terror, for it shall not come near you.
＊	6. FROM SLANDER AND REPROACH
＊	SLANDER
(Job 5:21)	You will be hidden from the scourge of the tongue, neither will you be afraid of destruction when it comes.
(Job 11:15)	Surely then you will lift up your face without spot; Yes, you will be steadfast, and will not fear:
(Ps 37:6)	he will make your righteousness shine out like light, and your justice as the noon day sun.
(Ps 31:20)	In the shelter of your presence you will hide them from the plotting of man. You will keep them secretly in a dwelling away from the strife of tongues.
(Ps 57:3)	He will send from heaven, and save me, he rebukes the one who is pursuing me. Selah. God will send out his loving kindness and his truth.
＊	REPROACH
(Isa 51:7)	“Listen to me, you who know righteousness, the people in whose heart is my law. Don’t fear the reproach of men, and don’t be dismayed at their insults.
(Isa 51:8)	For the moth will eat them up like a garment, and the worm will eat them like wool; but my righteousness will be forever, and my salvation to all generations.”
(Matt 5:11)	“Blessed are you when people reproach you, persecute you, and say all kinds of evil against you falsely, for my sake.
(Matt 5:12)	Rejoice, and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For that is how they persecuted the prophets who were before you.
(Heb 11:26)	considering the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt; for he looked to the reward.
(1Pet 4:14)	If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed; because the Spirit of glory and of God rests on you. On their part he is blasphemed, but on your part he is glorified.
＊	7. FROM WITCHCRAFT
(Num 23:23)	Surely there is no enchantment with Jacob; Neither is there any divination with Israel. Now it shall be said of Jacob and of Israel, ‘What has God done!’
＊	8. PROMISES TO THE STRANGER AND THE EXILE
(Deut 10:18)	He executes justice for the fatherless and widow and loves the foreigner in giving him food and clothing.
(Ps 146:9)	Yahweh preserves the foreigners. He upholds the fatherless and widow, but he turns the way of the wicked upside down.
(Ezek 11:16)	“Therefore say, ‘The Lord Yahweh says: “Whereas I have removed them far off among the nations, and whereas I have scattered them among the countries, yet I will be to them a sanctuary for a little while in the countries where they have come.”’
＊	9. TO THE POOR AND HELPLESS
(Ps 9:18)	For the needy shall not always be forgotten, nor the hope of the poor perish forever.
(Ps 68:10)	Your congregation lived therein. You, God, prepared your goodness for the poor.
(Ps 69:33)	For Yahweh hears the needy, and doesn’t despise his captive people.
(Ps 132:15)	I will abundantly bless her provision. I will satisfy her poor with bread.
(Isa 14:30)	The firstborn of the poor will eat, and the needy will lie down in safety; and I will kill your root with famine, and your remnant will be killed.
(Ps 72:2)	He will judge your people with righteousness, and your poor with justice.
(Ps 72:12)	For he will deliver the needy when he cries; the poor, who has no helper.
(Ps 72:13)	He will have pity on the poor and needy. He will save the souls of the needy.
(Ps 102:17)	He has responded to the prayer of the destitute, and has not despised their prayer.
(Ps 107:41)	Yet he lifts the needy out of their affliction, and increases their families like a flock.
(Ps 113:7)	He raises up the poor out of the dust. Lifts up the needy from the ash heap,
(Jer 20:13)	Sing to Yahweh! Praise Yahweh, for he has delivered the soul of the needy from the hand of evildoers.
(Job 5:15)	But he saves from the sword of their mouth, even the needy from the hand of the mighty.
(Job 5:16)	So the poor has hope, and injustice shuts her mouth.
(Job 36:15)	He delivers the afflicted by their affliction, and opens their ear in oppression.
(Jas 1:9)	But let the brother in humble circumstances glory in his high position;
(Jas 2:5)	Listen, my beloved brothers. Didn’t God choose those who are poor in this world to be rich in faith, and heirs of the Kingdom which he promised to those who love him?
(Luke 16:25)	“But Abraham said, ‘Son, remember that you, in your lifetime, received your good things, and Lazarus, in the same way, bad things. But here he is now comforted, and you are in anguish.
＊	10. TO THE FATHERLESS AND WIDOW
(Exod 22:22)	“You shall not take advantage of any widow or fatherless child.
(Exod 22:24)	and my wrath will grow hot, and I will kill you with the sword; and your wives shall be widows, and your children fatherless.
(Deut 10:18)	He executes justice for the fatherless and widow and loves the foreigner in giving him food and clothing.
(Ps 10:14)	But you do see trouble and grief. You consider it to take it into your hand. You help the victim and the fatherless.
(Ps 10:18)	to judge the fatherless and the oppressed, that man who is of the earth may terrify no more.
(Ps 68:5)	A father of the fatherless, and a defender of the widows, is God in his holy habitation.
(Ps 146:9)	Yahweh preserves the foreigners. He upholds the fatherless and widow, but he turns the way of the wicked upside down.
(Prov 15:25)	Yahweh will uproot the house of the proud, but he will keep the widow’s borders intact.
(Prov 23:10)	Don’t move the ancient boundary stone. Don’t encroach on the fields of the fatherless,
(Prov 23:11)	for their Defender is strong. He will plead their case against you.
(Jer 49:11)	Leave your fatherless children. I will preserve them alive. Let your widows trust in me.”
(Hos 14:3)	Assyria can’t save us. We won’t ride on horses; neither will we say any more to the work of our hands, ‘Our gods!’ for in you the fatherless finds mercy.”
＊	11. TO THE CHILDLESS
(Ps 68:6)	God sets the lonely in families. He brings out the prisoners with singing, but the rebellious dwell in a sun-scorched land.
(Ps 113:9)	He settles the barren woman in her home as a joyful mother of children. Praise Yah!
(Isa 56:4)	For Yahweh says, “To the eunuchs who keep my Sabbaths, choose the things that please me, and hold fast to my covenant,
(Isa 56:5)	I will give them in my house and within my walls a memorial and a name better than of sons and of daughters. I will give them an everlasting name that will not be cut off.
＊	12. TO THE PRISONER AND CAPTIVE
(Ps 68:6)	God sets the lonely in families. He brings out the prisoners with singing, but the rebellious dwell in a sun-scorched land.
(Ps 146:7)	who executes justice for the oppressed; who gives food to the hungry. Yahweh frees the prisoners.
(Deut 30:4)	If your outcasts are in the uttermost parts of the heavens, from there Yahweh your God will gather you, and from there he will bring you back.
(Ps 69:33)	For Yahweh hears the needy, and doesn’t despise his captive people.
(Ps 107:14)	He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and broke away their chains.
(Isa 51:14)	The captive exile will speedily be freed. He will not die and go down into the pit. His bread won’t fail.
(Isa 49:25)	But Yahweh says, “Even the captives of the mighty shall be taken away, and the plunder retrieved from the fierce, for I will contend with him who contends with you and I will save your children.
(Jer 15:11)	Yahweh said, “Most certainly I will strengthen you for good. Most certainly I will cause the enemy to make supplication to you in the time of evil and in the time of affliction.
＊	13. DELIVERANCE FROM DEATH
(Job 33:28)	He has redeemed my soul from going into the pit. My life will see the light.’
(Ps 68:20)	God is to us a God of deliverance. To Yahweh, the Lord, belongs escape from death.
(Ps 66:8)	Praise our God, you peoples! Make the sound of his praise heard,
(Ps 66:9)	who preserves our life among the living, and doesn’t allow our feet to be moved.
(Ps 102:19)	For he has looked down from the height of his sanctuary. From heaven, Yahweh saw the earth;
(Ps 102:20)	to hear the groans of the prisoner; to free those who are condemned to death;
(Ps 107:18)	Their soul abhors all kinds of food. They draw near to the gates of death.
(Ps 107:19)	Then they cry to Yahweh in their trouble, he saves them out of their distresses.
(Ps 116:15)	Precious in Yahweh’s sight is the death of his saints.
(Ps 91:7)	A thousand may fall at your side, and ten thousand at your right hand; but it will not come near you.
(Ps 9:13)	Have mercy on me, Yahweh. See my affliction by those who hate me, and lift me up from the gates of death,
(1Sam 2:6)	“Yahweh kills and makes alive. He brings down to Sheol [2:6 Sheol is the place of the dead.] and brings up.
(Deut 32:39)	“See now that I myself am he. There is no god with me. I kill and I make alive. I wound and I heal. There is no one who can deliver out of my hand.
＊	Chapter 3
＊	PROMISES OF SPIRITUAL BLESSINGS IN THIS LIFE
＊	1. IN GENERAL
(Ps 25:10)	All the paths of Yahweh are loving kindness and truth to such as keep his covenant and his testimonies.
(Ps 25:14)	The friendship of Yahweh is with those who fear him. He will show them his covenant.
(Eph 1:3)	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ,
(Eph 1:4)	even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we would be holy and without defect before him in love,
(Eph 1:7)	in whom we have our redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace,
(Eph 1:8)	which he made to abound toward us in all wisdom and prudence,
(2Pet 1:3)	seeing that his divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us by his own glory and virtue,
(2Pet 1:4)	by which he has granted to us his precious and exceedingly great promises; that through these you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world by lust.
(Gal 6:16)	As many as walk by this rule, peace and mercy be on them, and on God’s Israel.
(Rom 8:30)	Whom he predestined, those he also called. Whom he called, those he also justified. Whom he justified, those he also glorified.
＊	2. OF JUSTIFICATION, PARDON, AND RECONCILIATION
＊	JUSTIFICATION
(Num 23:21)	He has not seen iniquity in Jacob. Neither has he seen perverseness in Israel. Yahweh his God is with him. The shout of a king is among them.
(Isa 45:25)	All the offspring of Israel will be justified in Yahweh, and will rejoice!
(Isa 53:11)	After the suffering of his soul, he will see the light [53:11 So read the Dead Sea Scrolls and Septuagint. Masoretic Text omits “the light”.] and be satisfied. My righteous servant will justify many by the knowledge of himself; and he will bear their iniquities.
(Ezek 36:25)	I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all your filthiness, and from all your idols.
(Rom 3:24)	being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus;
(Rom 8:1)	There is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus, who don’t walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. [8:1 NU omits “who don’t walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit”]
(Rom 8:33)	Who could bring a charge against God’s chosen ones? It is God who justifies.
(Rom 8:34)	Who is he who condemns? It is Christ who died, yes rather, who was raised from the dead, who is at the right hand of God, who also makes intercession for us.
(Titus 3:7)	that being justified by his grace, we might be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life.
(2Cor 5:21)	For him who knew no sin he made to be sin on our behalf; so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.
(Acts 13:39)	and by him everyone who believes is justified from all things, from which you could not be justified by the law of Moses.
(Rom 5:1)	Being therefore justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ;
(Rom 5:9)	Much more then, being now justified by his blood, we will be saved from God’s wrath through him.
(Rom 5:18)	So then as through one trespass, all men were condemned; even so through one act of righteousness, all men were justified to life.
(Rom 5:19)	For as through the one man’s disobedience many were made sinners, even so through the obedience of the one, many will be made righteous.
＊	PARDON OF SIN
(Exod 34:7)	keeping loving kindness for thousands, forgiving iniquity and disobedience and sin; and who will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, and on the children’s children, on the third and on the fourth generation.”
(Ps 65:3)	Sins overwhelmed me, but you atoned for our transgressions.
(Isa 43:25)	I, even I, am he who blots out your transgressions for my own sake; and I will not remember your sins.
(Ps 130:4)	But there is forgiveness with you, therefore you are feared.
(Ps 130:8)	He will redeem Israel from all their sins.
(Isa 33:24)	The inhabitant won’t say, “I am sick.” The people who dwell therein will be forgiven their iniquity.
(Isa 44:22)	I have blotted out, as a thick cloud, your transgressions, and, as a cloud, your sins. Return to me, for I have redeemed you.
(Ps 103:9)	He will not always accuse; neither will he stay angry forever.
(Ps 103:12)	As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us.
(Hos 11:8)	“How can I give you up, Ephraim? How can I hand you over, Israel? How can I make you like Admah? How can I make you like Zeboiim? My heart is turned within me, my compassion is aroused.
(Hos 11:9)	I will not execute the fierceness of my anger. I will not return to destroy Ephraim: for I am God, and not man; the Holy One among you; and I will not come in wrath.
(Mic 7:18)	Who is a God like you, who pardons iniquity, and passes over the disobedience of the remnant of his heritage? He doesn’t retain his anger forever, because he delights in loving kindness.
(Mic 7:19)	He will again have compassion on us. He will tread our iniquities under foot; and you will cast all their sins into the depths of the sea.
(Heb 10:17)	“I will remember their sins and their iniquities no more.” [10:17 Jeremiah 31:34 ]
(Jer 31:34)	They will no longer each teach his neighbor, and every man teach his brother, saying, ‘Know Yahweh;’ for they will all know me, from their least to their greatest,” says Yahweh: “for I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more.”
(Heb 8:12)	For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness. I will remember their sins and lawless deeds no more.” [8:12 Jeremiah 31:31-34 ]
(Luke 7:47)	Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven, for she loved much. But one to whom little is forgiven, loves little.”
(Luke 7:48)	He said to her, “Your sins are forgiven.”
(Luke 7:50)	He said to the woman, “Your faith has saved you. Go in peace.”
(Matt 12:31)	Therefore I tell you, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven men, but the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven men.
(Matt 12:32)	Whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him; but whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit, it will not be forgiven him, neither in this age, nor in that which is to come.
(Ps 32:1)	By David. A contemplative psalm. Blessed is he whose disobedience is forgiven, whose sin is covered.
(Ps 32:2)	Blessed is the man to whom Yahweh doesn’t impute iniquity, in whose spirit there is no deceit.
＊	OF THE MOST HEINOUS SINS
(Isa 1:18)	“Come now, and let’s reason together,” says Yahweh: “Though your sins are as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they are red like crimson, they shall be as wool.
＊	OF ALL SINS
(Ps 103:3)	who forgives all your sins, who heals all your diseases,
(Jer 33:8)	I will cleanse them from all their iniquity by which they have sinned against me. I will pardon all their iniquities by which they have sinned against me and by which they have transgressed against me.
(Ezek 33:16)	None of his sins that he has committed will be remembered against him. He has done that which is lawful and right. He will surely live.
＊	OF BACKSLIDING
(Jer 3:12)	Go, and proclaim these words toward the north, and say, ‘Return, you backsliding Israel,’ says Yahweh; ‘I will not look in anger on you; for I am merciful,’ says Yahweh. ‘I will not keep anger forever.
(Jer 3:22)	Return, you backsliding children, and I will heal your backsliding. “Behold, we have come to you; for you are Yahweh our God.
(Hos 14:4)	“I will heal their waywardness. I will love them freely; for my anger is turned away from him.
＊	PARDON THROUGH CHRIST
(Zech 13:1)	“In that day there will be a spring opened to David’s house and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, for sin and for uncleanness.
(Matt 1:21)	She shall give birth to a son. You shall name him Jesus, [1:21 “Jesus” means “Salvation”.] for it is he who shall save his people from their sins.”
(Acts 13:38)	Be it known to you therefore, brothers, [13:38 The word for “brothers” here and where the context allows may also be correctly translated “brothers and sisters” or “siblings.”] that through this man is proclaimed to you remission of sins,
(Eph 1:7)	in whom we have our redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace,
(Gal 1:4)	who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us out of this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father—
(1Tim 1:15)	The saying is faithful and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief.
(1Cor 15:3)	For I delivered to you first of all that which I also received: that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures,
(Heb 1:3)	His Son is the radiance of his glory, the very image of his substance, and upholding all things by the word of his power, who, when he had by himself purified us of our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high,
(Heb 9:26)	or else he must have suffered often since the foundation of the world. But now once at the end of the ages, he has been revealed to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
(Heb 9:28)	so Christ also, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, without sin, to those who are eagerly waiting for him for salvation.
(Heb 10:14)	For by one offering he has perfected forever those who are being sanctified.
(John 1:29)	The next day, he saw Jesus coming to him, and said, “Behold, [1:29 “Behold”, from “ἰδοὺ”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.] the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world!
(Matt 26:28)	for this is my blood of the new covenant, which is poured out for many for the remission of sins.
(Isa 53:5)	But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought our peace was on him; and by his wounds we are healed.
(Isa 53:6)	All we like sheep have gone astray. Everyone has turned to his own way; and Yahweh has laid on him the iniquity of us all.
(1John 2:1)	My little children, I write these things to you so that you may not sin. If anyone sins, we have a Counselor [2:1 Greek παρακλητον: Counselor, Helper, Intercessor, Advocate, and Comforter.] with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous.
(1John 2:12)	I write to you, little children, because your sins are forgiven you for his name’s sake.
(1John 1:7)	But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his Son, cleanses us from all sin.
(1John 1:9)	If we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous to forgive us the sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
(1John 3:5)	You know that he was revealed to take away our sins, and no sin is in him.
(1Pet 2:24)	He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we, having died to sins, might live to righteousness. You were healed by his wounds. [2:24 or, stripes]
(Rev 1:5)	and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth. To him who loves us, and washed us from our sins by his blood—
＊	RECONCILIATION
(Isa 27:5)	Or else let him take hold of my strength, that he may make peace with me. Let him make peace with me.”
(Rom 5:9)	Much more then, being now justified by his blood, we will be saved from God’s wrath through him.
(Rom 5:10)	For if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his Son, much more, being reconciled, we will be saved by his life.
(2Cor 5:18)	But all things are of God, who reconciled us to himself through Jesus Christ, and gave to us the ministry of reconciliation;
(2Cor 5:19)	namely, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not reckoning to them their trespasses, and having committed to us the word of reconciliation.
(Eph 2:13)	But now in Christ Jesus you who once were far off are made near in the blood of Christ.
(Eph 2:17)	He came and preached peace to you who were far off and to those who were near.
(Col 1:21)	You, being in past times alienated and enemies in your mind in your evil deeds,
(Col 1:23)	if it is so that you continue in the faith, grounded and steadfast, and not moved away from the hope of the Good News which you heard, which is being proclaimed in all creation under heaven, of which I, Paul, was made a servant.
(Heb 2:17)	Therefore he was obligated in all things to be made like his brothers, that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make atonement for the sins of the people.
＊	3. ADOPTION
(Jer 31:9)	They will come with weeping. I will lead them with petitions. I will cause them to walk by rivers of waters, in a straight way in which they won’t stumble; for I am a father to Israel. Ephraim is my firstborn.
(Isa 63:16)	For you are our Father, though Abraham doesn’t know us, and Israel does not acknowledge us. You, Yahweh, are our Father. Our Redeemer from everlasting is your name.
(Isa 64:8)	But now, Yahweh, you are our Father. We are the clay and you our potter. We all are the work of your hand.
(Rom 8:14)	For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are children of God.
(Rom 8:15)	For you didn’t receive the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you received the Spirit of adoption, by whom we cry, “Abba! [8:15 Abba is an Aramaic word for “Father” or “Daddy”, which can be used affectionately and respectfully in prayer to our Father in heaven.] Father!”
(Rom 9:26)	“It will be that in the place where it was said to them, ‘You are not my people,’ there they will be called ‘children of the living God.’” [9:26 Hosea 1:10 ]
(2Cor 6:18)	I will be to you a Father. You will be to me sons and daughters,’ says the Lord Almighty.” [6:18 2 Samuel 7:14 ; 7:8 ]
(Gal 3:26)	For you are all children of God, through faith in Christ Jesus.
(Gal 4:4)	But when the fullness of the time came, God sent out his Son, born to a woman, born under the law,
(Gal 4:5)	that he might redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of children.
(Gal 4:7)	So you are no longer a bondservant, but a son; and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ.
(Eph 1:5)	having predestined us for adoption as children through Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his desire,
(Eph 1:6)	to the praise of the glory of his grace, by which he freely gave us favor in the Beloved,
(John 1:12)	But as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become God’s children, to those who believe in his name:
(1John 3:1)	See how great a love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God! For this cause the world doesn’t know us, because it didn’t know him.
(1John 3:2)	Beloved, now we are children of God. It is not yet revealed what we will be; but we know that when he is revealed, we will be like him; for we will see him just as he is.
＊	4. UNION AND COMMUNION WITH THE CHURCH
(Heb 12:22)	But you have come to Mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable multitudes of angels,
(Heb 12:24)	to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, [12:24 Jeremiah 31:31 ] and to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better than that of Abel.
(Phil 3:3)	For we are the circumcision, who worship God in the Spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh;
(Gal 3:28)	There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free man, there is neither male nor female; for you are all one in Christ Jesus.
(Gal 3:29)	If you are Christ’s, then you are Abraham’s offspring and heirs according to promise.
(Gal 4:26)	But the Jerusalem that is above is free, which is the mother of us all.
(Gal 4:28)	Now we, brothers, as Isaac was, are children of promise.
(1John 1:3)	that which we have seen and heard we declare to you, that you also may have fellowship with us. Yes, and our fellowship is with the Father, and with his Son, Jesus Christ.
(Eph 2:12)	that you were at that time separate from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of the promise, having no hope and without God in the world.
(Eph 2:13)	But now in Christ Jesus you who once were far off are made near in the blood of Christ.
(Eph 2:19)	So then you are no longer strangers and foreigners, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God,
(Eph 2:22)	in whom you also are built together for a habitation of God in the Spirit.
(Rom 11:17)	But if some of the branches were broken off, and you, being a wild olive, were grafted in among them and became partaker with them of the root and of the richness of the olive tree,
＊	5. FREE ACCESS TO GOD, WITH ACCEPTANCE
(Eph 2:18)	For through him we both have our access in one Spirit to the Father.
(Ezek 20:40)	For in my holy mountain, in the mountain of the height of Israel,” says the Lord Yahweh, “there all the house of Israel, all of them, shall serve me in the land. There I will accept them, and there I will require your offerings and the first fruits of your offerings, with all your holy things.
(Ezek 20:41)	I will accept you as a pleasant aroma when I bring you out from the peoples and gather you out of the countries in which you have been scattered. I will be sanctified in you in the sight of the nations.
(Eph 3:12)	In him we have boldness and access in confidence through our faith in him.
(Heb 10:19)	Having therefore, brothers, boldness to enter into the holy place by the blood of Jesus,
(Heb 10:20)	by the way which he dedicated for us, a new and living way, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh,
(Eph 1:6)	to the praise of the glory of his grace, by which he freely gave us favor in the Beloved,
(1Pet 2:4)	coming to him, a living stone, rejected indeed by men, but chosen by God, precious.
(1Pet 2:5)	You also, as living stones, are built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.
＊	6. OF HEARING PRAYER
(Job 22:27)	You will make your prayer to him, and he will hear you. You will pay your vows.
(Ps 4:3)	But know that Yahweh has set apart for himself him who is godly: Yahweh will hear when I call to him.
(Ps 34:6)	This poor man cried, and Yahweh heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles.
(Ps 34:15)	Yahweh’s eyes are toward the righteous. His ears listen to their cry.
(Ps 34:17)	The righteous cry, and Yahweh hears, and delivers them out of all their troubles.
(Ps 50:15)	Call on me in the day of trouble. I will deliver you, and you will honor me.”
(Ps 65:2)	You who hear prayer, all men will come to you.
(Ps 91:15)	He will call on me, and I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will deliver him, and honor him.
(Ps 145:19)	He will fulfill the desire of those who fear him. He also will hear their cry, and will save them.
(Prov 15:29)	Yahweh is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayer of the righteous.
(Isa 30:19)	For the people will dwell in Zion at Jerusalem. You will weep no more. He will surely be gracious to you at the voice of your cry. When he hears you, he will answer you.
(Isa 58:9)	Then you will call, and Yahweh will answer. You will cry for help, and he will say, ‘Here I am.’ “If you take away from among you the yoke, finger pointing, and speaking wickedly;
(Isa 65:24)	It will happen that before they call, I will answer; and while they are yet speaking, I will hear.
(Jer 29:12)	You shall call on me, and you shall go and pray to me, and I will listen to you.
(Zech 13:9)	I will bring the third part into the fire, and will refine them as silver is refined, and will test them like gold is tested. They will call on my name, and I will hear them. I will say, ‘It is my people;’ and they will say, ‘Yahweh is my God.’”
(Matt 7:7)	“Ask, and it will be given you. Seek, and you will find. Knock, and it will be opened for you.
(Matt 7:8)	For everyone who asks receives. He who seeks finds. To him who knocks it will be opened.
(Matt 7:11)	If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him!
(Matt 21:22)	All things, whatever you ask in prayer, believing, you will receive.”
(John 15:7)	If you remain in me, and my words remain in you, you will ask whatever you desire, and it will be done for you.
(John 16:23)	“In that day you will ask me no questions. Most certainly I tell you, whatever you may ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you.
(John 16:24)	Until now, you have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be made full.
(John 14:13)	Whatever you will ask in my name, I will do it, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
(John 14:14)	If you will ask anything in my name, I will do it.
(Jas 5:15)	and the prayer of faith will heal him who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up. If he has committed sins, he will be forgiven.
(Jas 5:16)	Confess your offenses to one another, and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The insistent prayer of a righteous person is powerfully effective.
(1John 3:22)	so whatever we ask, we receive from him, because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his sight.
(1John 5:14)	This is the boldness which we have toward him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he listens to us.
(1John 5:16)	If anyone sees his brother sinning a sin not leading to death, he shall ask, and God will give him life for those who sin not leading to death. There is a sin leading to death. I don’t say that he should make a request concerning this.
＊	7. SANCTIFYING GRACE IN GENERAL
(Ps 84:11)	For Yahweh God is a sun and a shield. Yahweh will give grace and glory. He withholds no good thing from those who walk blamelessly.
(John 17:17)	Sanctify them in your truth. Your word is truth. [17:17 Psalm 119:142 ]
(John 17:19)	For their sakes I sanctify myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth.
(Eph 2:10)	For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared before that we would walk in them.
(Phil 2:13)	For it is God who works in you both to will and to work, for his good pleasure.
(Phil 4:13)	I can do all things through Christ, who strengthens me.
(2Cor 3:5)	not that we are sufficient of ourselves, to account anything as from ourselves; but our sufficiency is from God,
(1Thess 5:23)	May the God of peace himself sanctify you completely. May your whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
(Col 1:12)	giving thanks to the Father, who made us fit to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light,
(Col 1:21)	You, being in past times alienated and enemies in your mind in your evil deeds,
(Col 1:22)	yet now he has reconciled in the body of his flesh through death, to present you holy and without defect and blameless before him,
(2Thess 2:13)	But we are bound to always give thanks to God for you, brothers loved by the Lord, because God chose you from the beginning for salvation through sanctification of the Spirit and belief in the truth,
(Titus 2:14)	who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify for himself a people for his own possession, zealous for good works.
(Jer 31:33)	“But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days,” says Yahweh: “I will put my law in their inward parts, and I will write it in their heart. I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
(Luke 1:74)	to grant to us that we, being delivered out of the hand of our enemies, should serve him without fear,
(Luke 1:75)	in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life.
(Jer 30:9)	but they will serve Yahweh their God, and David their king, whom I will raise up to them.
(1Cor 6:11)	Some of you were such, but you were washed. But you were sanctified. But you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and in the Spirit of our God.
(2Cor 3:18)	But we all, with unveiled face seeing the glory of the Lord as in a mirror, are transformed into the same image from glory to glory, even as from the Lord, the Spirit.
＊	8. OF CONVERTING GRACE
(Deut 30:6)	Yahweh your God will circumcise your heart, and the heart of your offspring, to love Yahweh your God with all your heart and with all your soul, that you may live.
(Jer 24:7)	I will give them a heart to know me, that I am Yahweh. They will be my people, and I will be their God; for they will return to me with their whole heart.
(Jer 31:18)	“I have surely heard Ephraim grieving thus, ‘You have chastised me, and I was chastised, as an untrained calf. Turn me, and I will be turned; for you are Yahweh my God.
(Ps 110:3)	Your people offer themselves willingly in the day of your power, in holy array. Out of the womb of the morning, you have the dew of your youth.
(Titus 3:5)	not by works of righteousness which we did ourselves, but according to his mercy, he saved us through the washing of regeneration and renewing by the Holy Spirit,
(Ezek 36:26)	I will also give you a new heart, and I will put a new spirit within you. I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will give you a heart of flesh.
(2Tim 1:9)	who saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus before times eternal,
(Ezek 11:19)	I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within you. I will take the stony heart out of their flesh, and will give them a heart of flesh;
(Ezek 11:20)	that they may walk in my statutes, and keep my ordinances, and do them. They will be my people, and I will be their God.
(Jer 50:4)	“In those days, and in that time,” says Yahweh, “the children of Israel will come, they and the children of Judah together; they will go on their way weeping, and will seek Yahweh their God.
(Jer 50:5)	They will inquire concerning Zion with their faces turned toward it, saying, ‘Come, and join yourselves to Yahweh in an everlasting covenant that will not be forgotten.’
＊	THE GRACE OF REPENTANCE
(Zech 12:10)	I will pour on David’s house, and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the spirit of grace and of supplication; and they will look to me [12:10 After “me”, the Hebrew has the two letters “Aleph Tav” (the first and last letters of the Hebrew alphabet), not as a word, but as a grammatical marker.] whom they have pierced; and they shall mourn for him, as one mourns for his only son, and will grieve bitterly for him, as one grieves for his firstborn.
(Acts 3:26)	God, having raised up his servant Jesus, sent him to you first to bless you, in turning away every one of you from your wickedness.”
(Acts 5:31)	God exalted him with his right hand to be a Prince and a Savior, to give repentance to Israel, and remission of sins.
(Ezek 36:31)	“‘“Then you will remember your evil ways, and your deeds that were not good; and you will loathe yourselves in your own sight for your iniquities and for your abominations.
(Hos 2:6)	Therefore behold, [2:6 “Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.] I will hedge up your way with thorns, and I will build a wall against her, that she can’t find her way.
(Hos 2:7)	She will follow after her lovers, but she won’t overtake them; and she will seek them, but won’t find them. Then she will say, ‘I will go and return to my first husband; for then was it better with me than now.’
(Matt 9:13)	But you go and learn what this means: ‘I desire mercy, and not sacrifice,’ [9:13 Hosea 6:6 ] for I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.” [9:13 NU omits “to repentance”.]
(Ezek 20:43)	There you will remember your ways, and all your deeds in which you have polluted yourselves. Then you will loathe yourselves in your own sight for all your evils that you have committed.
＊	THE GRACE OF FAITH
(Phil 1:29)	Because it has been granted to you on behalf of Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer on his behalf,
(Eph 2:8)	for by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God,
(John 6:45)	It is written in the prophets, ‘They will all be taught by God.’ [6:45 Isaiah 54:13 ] Therefore everyone who hears from the Father and has learned, comes to me.
＊	GRACE TO FEAR GOD
(Jer 32:39)	I will give them one heart and one way, that they may fear me forever, for their good, and the good of their children after them.
＊	9. KNOWLEDGE, WISDOM, ETC.
＊	KNOWLEDGE
(Prov 28:5)	Evil men don’t understand justice; but those who seek Yahweh understand it fully.
(Isa 2:3)	Many peoples shall go and say, “Come, let’s go up to the mountain of Yahweh, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths.” For the law shall go out of Zion, and Yahweh’s word from Jerusalem.
(2Cor 4:6)	seeing it is God who said, “Light will shine out of darkness,” [4:6 Genesis 1:3 ] who has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.
(Prov 2:5)	then you will understand the fear of Yahweh, and find the knowledge of God. [2:5 The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).]
(Prov 2:9)	Then you will understand righteousness and justice, equity and every good path.
(Isa 35:8)	A highway will be there, a road, and it will be called “The Holy Way”. The unclean shall not pass over it, but it will be for those who walk in the Way. Wicked fools shall not go there.
(Isa 29:18)	In that day, the deaf will hear the words of the book, and the eyes of the blind will see out of obscurity and out of darkness.
(Isa 29:24)	They also who err in spirit will come to understanding, and those who grumble will receive instruction.”
(Hos 6:3)	Let’s acknowledge Yahweh. Let’s press on to know Yahweh. As surely as the sun rises, Yahweh will appear. He will come to us like the rain, like the spring rain that waters the earth.”
(Isa 52:6)	Therefore my people shall know my name. Therefore they shall know in that day that I am he who speaks. Behold, it is I.”
(Matt 11:25)	At that time, Jesus answered, “I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you hid these things from the wise and understanding, and revealed them to infants.
(1John 5:20)	We know that the Son of God has come, and has given us an understanding, that we know him who is true, and we are in him who is true, in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life.
(Jer 31:34)	They will no longer each teach his neighbor, and every man teach his brother, saying, ‘Know Yahweh;’ for they will all know me, from their least to their greatest,” says Yahweh: “for I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more.”
(Luke 1:77)	to give knowledge of salvation to his people by the remission of their sins,
(Luke 1:79)	to shine on those who sit in darkness and the shadow of death; to guide our feet into the way of peace.”
(Luke 4:18)	“The Spirit of the Lord is on me, because he has anointed me to preach good news to the poor. He has sent me to heal the broken hearted, [4:18 NU omits “to heal the broken hearted”] to proclaim release to the captives, recovering of sight to the blind, to deliver those who are crushed,
(Isa 32:3)	The eyes of those who see will not be dim, and the ears of those who hear will listen.
(Isa 42:7)	to open the blind eyes, to bring the prisoners out of the dungeon, and those who sit in darkness out of the prison.
(John 8:12)	Again, therefore, Jesus spoke to them, saying, “I am the light of the world. [8:12 Isaiah 60:1 ] He who follows me will not walk in the darkness, but will have the light of life.”
(1Cor 2:14)	Now the natural man doesn’t receive the things of God’s Spirit, for they are foolishness to him, and he can’t know them, because they are spiritually discerned.
(1Cor 2:15)	But he who is spiritual discerns all things, and he himself is judged by no one.
＊	WISDOM
(Ps 16:7)	I will bless Yahweh, who has given me counsel. Yes, my heart instructs me in the night seasons.
(Prov 2:6)	For Yahweh gives wisdom. Out of his mouth comes knowledge and understanding.
(Prov 2:7)	He lays up sound wisdom for the upright. He is a shield to those who walk in integrity,
(Eccl 2:26)	For to the man who pleases him, God gives wisdom, knowledge, and joy; but to the sinner he gives travail, to gather and to heap up, that he may give to him who pleases God. This also is vanity and a chasing after wind.
(Ps 51:6)	Behold, you desire truth in the inward parts. You teach me wisdom in the inmost place.
(Jas 1:5)	But if any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all liberally and without reproach, and it will be given to him.
＊	DIVINE TEACHING
(Ps 32:8)	I will instruct you and teach you in the way which you shall go. I will counsel you with my eye on you.
(John 7:17)	If anyone desires to do his will, he will know about the teaching, whether it is from God, or if I am speaking from myself.
(Ps 25:8)	Good and upright is Yahweh, therefore he will instruct sinners in the way.
(Ps 25:12)	What man is he who fears Yahweh? He shall instruct him in the way that he shall choose.
＊	DIVINE GUIDANCE
(Isa 30:21)	and when you turn to the right hand, and when you turn to the left, your ears will hear a voice behind you, saying, “This is the way. Walk in it.”
(Isa 61:8)	“For I, Yahweh, love justice. I hate robbery and iniquity. I will give them their reward in truth and I will make an everlasting covenant with them.
(Ps 73:24)	You will guide me with your counsel, and afterward receive me to glory.
(Isa 58:11)	and Yahweh will guide you continually, satisfy your soul in dry places, and make your bones strong. You will be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water whose waters don’t fail.
(Ps 23:3)	He restores my soul. He guides me in the paths of righteousness for his name’s sake.
(Isa 49:10)	They shall not hunger nor thirst; neither shall the heat nor sun strike them: for he who has mercy on them will lead them. He will guide them by springs of water.
(Deut 32:10)	He found him in a desert land, in the waste howling wilderness. He surrounded him. He cared for him. He kept him as the apple of his eye.
(Deut 32:12)	Yahweh alone led him. There was no foreign god with him.
＊	ABILITY FOR GOOD DISCOURSE
(Prov 10:31)	The mouth of the righteous produces wisdom, but the perverse tongue will be cut off.
(Prov 10:32)	The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable, but the mouth of the wicked is perverse.
(Isa 32:4)	The heart of the rash will understand knowledge, and the tongue of the stammerers will be ready to speak plainly.
(Prov 16:1)	The plans of the heart belong to man, but the answer of the tongue is from Yahweh.
(1Cor 12:8)	For to one is given through the Spirit the word of wisdom, and to another the word of knowledge, according to the same Spirit;
(Luke 21:15)	for I will give you a mouth and wisdom which all your adversaries will not be able to withstand or to contradict.
＊	10. THE MEANS OF GRACE
(Ps 23:2)	He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters.
(Isa 49:9)	saying to those who are bound, ‘Come out!’; to those who are in darkness, ‘Show yourselves!’ “They shall feed along the paths, and their pasture shall be on all treeless heights.
(Isa 49:10)	They shall not hunger nor thirst; neither shall the heat nor sun strike them: for he who has mercy on them will lead them. He will guide them by springs of water.
(Isa 52:7)	How beautiful on the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who publishes peace, who brings good news, who proclaims salvation, who says to Zion, “Your God reigns!”
(Isa 52:8)	Your watchmen lift up their voice. Together they sing; for they shall see eye to eye when Yahweh returns to Zion.
(Isa 62:6)	I have set watchmen on your walls, Jerusalem. They will never be silent day nor night. You who call on Yahweh, take no rest,
(Jer 3:15)	I will give you shepherds according to my heart, who will feed you with knowledge and understanding.
(Isa 41:18)	I will open rivers on the bare heights, and springs in the middle of the valleys. I will make the wilderness a pool of water, and the dry land springs of water.
(Jer 31:12)	They will come and sing in the height of Zion, and will flow to the goodness of Yahweh, to the grain, to the new wine, to the oil, and to the young of the flock and of the herd. Their soul will be as a watered garden. They will not sorrow any more at all.
(Jer 31:14)	I will satiate the soul of the priests with fatness, and my people will be satisfied with my goodness,” says Yahweh.
(Isa 30:20)	Though the Lord may give you the bread of adversity and the water of affliction, yet your teachers won’t be hidden any more, but your eyes will see your teachers;
(Isa 56:7)	I will bring these to my holy mountain, and make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar; for my house will be called a house of prayer for all peoples.”
(Ezek 34:15)	I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep, and I will cause them to lie down,” says the Lord Yahweh.
(Eph 4:11)	He gave some to be apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, shepherds [4:11 or, pastors] and teachers;
(Eph 4:13)	until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to a full grown man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ,
＊	A BLESSING UPON ORDINANCES
(Ps 36:8)	They shall be abundantly satisfied with the abundance of your house. You will make them drink of the river of your pleasures.
(Ps 36:9)	For with you is the spring of life. In your light we will see light.
(Ps 63:2)	So I have seen you in the sanctuary, watching your power and your glory.
(Ps 63:5)	My soul shall be satisfied as with the richest food. My mouth shall praise you with joyful lips,
(Song 2:3)	[Beloved] As the apple tree among the trees of the wood, so is my beloved among the sons. I sat down under his shadow with great delight, his fruit was sweet to my taste.
(Ps 92:13)	They are planted in Yahweh’s house. They will flourish in our God’s courts.
(Ps 68:24)	They have seen your processions, God, even the processions of my God, my King, into the sanctuary.
(Ps 65:4)	Blessed is the one whom you choose and cause to come near, that he may live in your courts. We will be filled with the goodness of your house, your holy temple.
(Ps 89:15)	Blessed are the people who learn to acclaim you. They walk in the light of your presence, Yahweh.
(Ps 89:16)	In your name they rejoice all day. In your righteousness, they are exalted.
(Ps 84:4)	Blessed are those who dwell in your house. They are always praising you. Selah.
(Ps 84:11)	For Yahweh God is a sun and a shield. Yahweh will give grace and glory. He withholds no good thing from those who walk blamelessly.
(Isa 48:17)	Yahweh, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel says: “I am Yahweh your God, who teaches you to profit, who leads you by the way that you should go.
(Isa 12:3)	Therefore with joy you will draw water out of the wells of salvation.
(Isa 60:7)	All the flocks of Kedar will be gathered together to you. The rams of Nebaioth will serve you. They will be accepted as offerings on my altar; and I will beautify my glorious house.
(Matt 18:20)	For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there I am in the middle of them.”
＊	11. OF GRACE AGAINST SIN AND TEMPTATION
＊	TO MORTIFY SIN
(Hos 14:8)	Ephraim, what have I to do any more with idols? I answer, and will take care of him. I am like a green cypress tree; from me your fruit is found.”
(Rom 7:24)	What a wretched man I am! Who will deliver me out of the body of this death?
(Rom 7:25)	I thank God through Jesus Christ, our Lord! So then with the mind, I myself serve God’s law, but with the flesh, sin’s law.
(Rom 6:6)	knowing this, that our old man was crucified with him, that the body of sin might be done away with, so that we would no longer be in bondage to sin.
(Rom 6:14)	For sin will not have dominion over you. For you are not under law, but under grace.
(Gal 5:16)	But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you won’t fulfill the lust of the flesh.
(John 8:32)	You will know the truth, and the truth will make you free.” [8:32 Psalm 119:45 ]
(John 15:2)	Every branch in me that doesn’t bear fruit, he takes away. Every branch that bears fruit, he prunes, that it may bear more fruit.
(Rom 8:2)	For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus made me free from the law of sin and of death.
(Rom 8:4)	that the ordinance of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.
＊	AGAINST TEMPTATION
(Rom 8:37)	No, in all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us.
(1Cor 10:13)	No temptation has taken you except what is common to man. God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted above what you are able, but will with the temptation also make the way of escape, that you may be able to endure it.
(Eccl 7:18)	It is good that you should take hold of this. Yes, also don’t withdraw your hand from that; for he who fears God will come out of them all.
(2Pet 2:9)	the Lord knows how to deliver the godly out of temptation and to keep the unrighteous under punishment for the day of judgment,
(2Cor 12:9)	He has said to me, “My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.” Most gladly therefore I will rather glory in my weaknesses, that the power of Christ may rest on me.
(Heb 2:18)	For in that he himself has suffered being tempted, he is able to help those who are tempted.
(1John 4:4)	You are of God, little children, and have overcome them; because greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world.
＊	FROM THE ENTICEMENT OF SINNERS
(Prov 2:12)	to deliver you from the way of evil, from the men who speak perverse things,
(Prov 2:16)	to deliver you from the strange woman, even from the foreigner who flatters with her words,
(Eccl 7:26)	I find more bitter than death the woman whose heart is snares and traps, whose hands are chains. Whoever pleases God shall escape from her; but the sinner will be ensnared by her.
＊	VICTORY OVER THE WORLD
(John 16:33)	I have told you these things, that in me you may have peace. In the world you have trouble; but cheer up! I have overcome the world.”
(Gal 6:14)	But far be it from me to boast, except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world.
(Gal 1:4)	who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us out of this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father—
(John 17:15)	I pray not that you would take them from the world, but that you would keep them from the evil one.
(1John 5:4)	For whatever is born of God overcomes the world. This is the victory that has overcome the world: your faith.
(1John 5:5)	Who is he who overcomes the world, but he who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
＊	VICTORY OVER THE DEVIL
(Jas 4:7)	Be subject therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.
(Gen 3:15)	I will put hostility between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. He will bruise your head, and you will bruise his heel.”
(Luke 22:31)	The Lord said, “Simon, Simon, behold, Satan asked to have all of you, that he might sift you as wheat,
(Luke 22:32)	but I prayed for you, that your faith wouldn’t fail. You, when once you have turned again, establish your brothers.” [22:32 The word for “brothers” here may be also correctly translated “brothers and sisters” or “siblings.”]
(Rom 16:20)	And the God of peace will quickly crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
(1John 2:14)	I have written to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the beginning. I have written to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God remains in you, and you have overcome the evil one.
(1John 5:18)	We know that whoever is born of God doesn’t sin, but he who was born of God keeps himself, and the evil one doesn’t touch him.
＊	12. STRENGTH, COURAGE, AND RESOLUTION
(Isa 42:3)	He won’t break a bruised reed. He won’t quench a dimly burning wick. He will faithfully bring justice.
(Isa 12:2)	Behold, God is my salvation. I will trust, and will not be afraid; for Yah, Yahweh, is my strength and song; and he has become my salvation.”
(Isa 40:29)	He gives power to the weak. He increases the strength of him who has no might.
(Isa 40:31)	but those who wait for Yahweh will renew their strength. They will mount up with wings like eagles. They will run, and not be weary. They will walk, and not faint.
(Job 11:15)	Surely then you will lift up your face without spot; Yes, you will be steadfast, and will not fear:
(2Cor 12:9)	He has said to me, “My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.” Most gladly therefore I will rather glory in my weaknesses, that the power of Christ may rest on me.
(Ps 31:24)	Be strong, and let your heart take courage, all you who hope in Yahweh.
(Zech 10:12)	I will strengthen them in Yahweh; and they will walk up and down in his name,” says Yahweh.
(Ps 68:35)	You are awesome, God, in your sanctuaries. The God of Israel gives strength and power to his people. Praise be to God!
(Zech 12:8)	In that day Yahweh will defend the inhabitants of Jerusalem. He who is feeble among them at that day will be like David, and David’s house will be like God, like Yahweh’s angel before them.
(Isa 35:3)	Strengthen the weak hands, and make the feeble knees firm.
(Isa 35:4)	Tell those who have a fearful heart, “Be strong! Don’t be afraid! Behold, your God will come with vengeance, God’s retribution. He will come and save you.
(Joel 3:16)	Yahweh will roar from Zion, and thunder from Jerusalem; and the heavens and the earth will shake; but Yahweh will be a refuge to his people, and a stronghold to the children of Israel.
(2Tim 1:7)	For God didn’t give us a spirit of fear, but of power, love, and self-control.
＊	13. FRUITFULNESS AND INCREASE OF GRACE
＊	FRUITFULNESS
(2Pet 1:8)	For if these things are yours and abound, they make you to not be idle or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
(Hos 14:5)	I will be like the dew to Israel. He will blossom like the lily, and send down his roots like Lebanon.
(Hos 14:8)	Ephraim, what have I to do any more with idols? I answer, and will take care of him. I am like a green cypress tree; from me your fruit is found.”
(Ps 1:3)	He will be like a tree planted by the streams of water, that produces its fruit in its season, whose leaf also does not wither. Whatever he does shall prosper.
(Jer 31:12)	They will come and sing in the height of Zion, and will flow to the goodness of Yahweh, to the grain, to the new wine, to the oil, and to the young of the flock and of the herd. Their soul will be as a watered garden. They will not sorrow any more at all.
(John 15:2)	Every branch in me that doesn’t bear fruit, he takes away. Every branch that bears fruit, he prunes, that it may bear more fruit.
(John 15:5)	I am the vine. You are the branches. He who remains in me and I in him bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing.
＊	IN OLD AGE
(Ps 92:14)	They will still produce fruit in old age. They will be full of sap and green,
＊	INCREASE IN GRACE
(Job 17:9)	Yet the righteous will hold to his way. He who has clean hands will grow stronger and stronger.
(Ps 84:7)	They go from strength to strength. Every one of them appears before God in Zion.
(Ps 92:12)	The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree. He will grow like a cedar in Lebanon.
(Prov 4:18)	But the path of the righteous is like the dawning light that shines more and more until the perfect day.
(Mal 4:2)	But to you who fear my name shall the sun of righteousness arise with healing in its wings. You will go out, and leap like calves of the stall.
(Matt 13:12)	For whoever has, to him will be given, and he will have abundance, but whoever doesn’t have, from him will be taken away even that which he has.
(Jas 4:6)	But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, “God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble.” [4:6 Proverbs 3:34 ]
＊	THE GRACE OF MEEKNESS
(Isa 11:6)	The wolf will live with the lamb, and the leopard will lie down with the young goat, the calf, the young lion, and the fattened calf together; and a little child will lead them.
(Isa 11:9)	They will not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain; for the earth will be full of the knowledge of Yahweh, as the waters cover the sea.
＊	14. GRACE TO PERSEVERE
(John 10:28)	I give eternal life to them. They will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand.
(John 10:29)	My Father who has given them to me is greater than all. No one is able to snatch them out of my Father’s hand.
(2Thess 3:3)	But the Lord is faithful, who will establish you and guard you from the evil one.
(2Cor 1:21)	Now he who establishes us with you in Christ and anointed us is God,
(1Cor 1:8)	who will also confirm you until the end, blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
(John 17:11)	I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them through your name which you have given me, that they may be one, even as we are.
(Phil 1:6)	being confident of this very thing, that he who began a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ.
(1Thess 5:23)	May the God of peace himself sanctify you completely. May your whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
(1Thess 5:24)	He who calls you is faithful, who will also do it.
(Rom 8:38)	For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers,
(Rom 8:39)	nor height, nor depth, nor any other created thing will be able to separate us from God’s love which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
(Prov 10:25)	When the whirlwind passes, the wicked is no more; but the righteous stand firm forever.
(Ps 94:18)	When I said, “My foot is slipping!” Your loving kindness, Yahweh, held me up.
(1Pet 1:5)	who by the power of God are guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.
(Jude 1:24)	Now to him who is able to keep them [1:24 TR and NU read “you”] from stumbling, and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory in great joy,
(2Pet 1:10)	Therefore, brothers, [1:10 The word for “brothers” here and where context allows may also be correctly translated “brothers and sisters” or “siblings.” ] be more diligent to make your calling and election sure. For if you do these things, you will never stumble.
(Ps 138:8)	Yahweh will fulfill that which concerns me. Your loving kindness, Yahweh, endures forever. Don’t forsake the works of your own hands.
(1John 5:18)	We know that whoever is born of God doesn’t sin, but he who was born of God keeps himself, and the evil one doesn’t touch him.
＊	15. SANCTIFIED AFFLICTIONS
(Job 5:17)	“Behold, happy is the man whom God corrects. Therefore do not despise the chastening of the Almighty.
(Job 5:18)	For he wounds and binds up. He injures and his hands make whole.
(Deut 8:5)	You shall consider in your heart that as a man disciplines his son, so Yahweh your God disciplines you.
(Prov 3:12)	for whom Yahweh loves, he corrects, even as a father reproves the son in whom he delights.
(Isa 1:25)	I will turn my hand on you, thoroughly purge away your dross, and will take away all your tin. [1:25 tin is a metal that is separated from silver during the refining and purification process.]
(Ps 94:12)	Blessed is the man whom you discipline, Yah, and teach out of your law,
(Ps 94:13)	that you may give him rest from the days of adversity, until the pit is dug for the wicked.
(Ps 119:67)	Before I was afflicted, I went astray; but now I observe your word.
(Ps 119:71)	It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I may learn your statutes.
(Ps 119:75)	Yahweh, I know that your judgments are righteous, that in faithfulness you have afflicted me.
(Job 36:8)	If they are bound in fetters, and are taken in the cords of afflictions,
(Job 36:10)	He also opens their ears to instruction, and commands that they return from iniquity.
(Isa 48:10)	Behold, I have refined you, but not as silver. I have chosen you in the furnace of affliction.
(Isa 27:9)	Therefore by this the iniquity of Jacob will be forgiven, and this is all the fruit of taking away his sin: that he makes all the stones of the altar as chalk stones that are beaten in pieces, so that the Asherah poles and the incense altars shall rise no more.
(1Cor 11:32)	But when we are judged, we are punished by the Lord, that we may not be condemned with the world.
(Rom 5:3)	Not only this, but we also rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces perseverance;
(Rom 5:4)	and perseverance, proven character; and proven character, hope:
(2Cor 4:16)	Therefore we don’t faint, but though our outward man is decaying, yet our inward man is renewed day by day.
(2Cor 4:17)	For our light affliction, which is for the moment, works for us more and more exceedingly an eternal weight of glory,
(Hos 2:6)	Therefore behold, [2:6 “Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.] I will hedge up your way with thorns, and I will build a wall against her, that she can’t find her way.
(Hos 2:7)	She will follow after her lovers, but she won’t overtake them; and she will seek them, but won’t find them. Then she will say, ‘I will go and return to my first husband; for then was it better with me than now.’
(Rev 3:19)	As many as I love, I reprove and chasten. Be zealous therefore, and repent.
(Phil 1:19)	For I know that this will turn out to my salvation, through your prayers and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
(Dan 11:35)	Some of those who are wise will fall, to refine them, and to purify, and to make them white, even to the time of the end; because it is yet for the time appointed.
(Jas 1:3)	knowing that the testing of your faith produces endurance.
(Jas 1:12)	Blessed is a person who endures temptation, for when he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life, which the Lord promised to those who love him.
(Heb 12:6)	for whom the Lord loves, he disciplines, and chastises every son whom he receives.” [12:6 Proverbs 3:11-12 ]
(Heb 12:7)	It is for discipline that you endure. God deals with you as with children, for what son is there whom his father doesn’t discipline?
(Heb 12:10)	For they indeed, for a few days, punished us as seemed good to them; but he for our profit, that we may be partakers of his holiness.
(Heb 12:11)	All chastening seems for the present to be not joyous but grievous; yet afterward it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it.
(Dan 12:10)	Many will purify themselves, and make themselves white, and be refined; but the wicked will do wickedly; and none of the wicked will understand; but those who are wise will understand.
(1Pet 1:7)	that the proof of your faith, which is more precious than gold that perishes even though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise, glory, and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ—
(Zech 13:9)	I will bring the third part into the fire, and will refine them as silver is refined, and will test them like gold is tested. They will call on my name, and I will hear them. I will say, ‘It is my people;’ and they will say, ‘Yahweh is my God.’”
＊	16. GRACE TO THE CHILDREN OF ISRAEL
(Deut 30:6)	Yahweh your God will circumcise your heart, and the heart of your offspring, to love Yahweh your God with all your heart and with all your soul, that you may live.
(Gen 17:7)	I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be a God to you and to your offspring after you.
(Gen 17:9)	God said to Abraham, “As for you, you will keep my covenant, you and your offspring after you throughout their generations.
(1Cor 7:14)	For the unbelieving husband is sanctified in the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified in the husband. Otherwise your children would be unclean, but now they are holy.
(Acts 2:39)	For the promise is to you, and to your children, and to all who are far off, even as many as the Lord our God will call to himself.”
(Acts 16:31)	They said, “Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved, you and your household.”
(Isa 54:13)	All your children will be taught by Yahweh; and your children’s peace will be great.
(Mark 10:14)	But when Jesus saw it, he was moved with indignation, and said to them, “Allow the little children to come to me! Don’t forbid them, for God’s Kingdom belongs to such as these.
(Mark 10:16)	He took them in his arms, and blessed them, laying his hands on them.
(Isa 44:3)	For I will pour water on him who is thirsty, and streams on the dry ground. I will pour my Spirit on your descendants, and my blessing on your offspring:
(Isa 44:5)	One will say, ‘I am Yahweh’s;’ and another will be called by the name of Jacob; and another will write with his hand ‘to Yahweh,’ and honor the name of Israel.”
＊	17. AN INTEREST IN GOD
＊	AS OUR GOD
(Gen 17:7)	I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be a God to you and to your offspring after you.
(Rev 21:3)	I heard a loud voice out of heaven saying, “Behold, God’s dwelling is with people, and he will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God.
(Jer 30:22)	“You shall be my people, and I will be your God.
(2Cor 6:16)	What agreement does a temple of God have with idols? For you are a temple of the living God. Even as God said, “I will dwell in them and walk in them. I will be their God and they will be my people.” [6:16 Leviticus 26:12 ; Jeremiah 32:38 ; Ezekiel 37:27 ]
(Heb 8:10)	“For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel. After those days,” says the Lord; “I will put my laws into their mind, I will also write them on their heart. I will be their God, and they will be my people.
(Lev 26:12)	I will walk among you, and will be your God, and you will be my people.
(Ps 48:14)	For this God is our God forever and ever. He will be our guide even to death.
(Isa 41:10)	Don’t you be afraid, for I am with you. Don’t be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you. Yes, I will help you. Yes, I will uphold you with the right hand of my righteousness.
(Isa 54:5)	For your Maker is your husband; Yahweh of Armies is his name. The Holy One of Israel is your Redeemer. He will be called the God of the whole earth.
(Ezek 34:24)	I, Yahweh, will be their God, and my servant David prince among them. I, Yahweh, have spoken it.
(Ezek 34:31)	You my sheep, the sheep of my pasture, are men, and I am your God,’ says the Lord Yahweh.”
(Heb 11:16)	But now they desire a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God, for he has prepared a city for them.
＊	OUR PORTION
(Gen 15:1)	After these things Yahweh’s word came to Abram in a vision, saying, “Don’t be afraid, Abram. I am your shield, your exceedingly great reward.”
(Ps 16:5)	Yahweh assigned my portion and my cup. You made my lot secure.
(Lam 3:24)	“Yahweh is my portion,” says my soul. “Therefore I will hope in him.”
(Ps 73:26)	My flesh and my heart fails, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever.
＊	OUR GLORY
(Isa 28:5)	In that day, Yahweh of Armies will become a crown of glory and a diadem of beauty to the residue of his people,
＊	HIS PRESENCE WITH US
(Ps 140:13)	Surely the righteous will give thanks to your name. The upright will dwell in your presence.
(Exod 33:14)	He said, “My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest.”
(Num 23:21)	He has not seen iniquity in Jacob. Neither has he seen perverseness in Israel. Yahweh his God is with him. The shout of a king is among them.
(Isa 41:10)	Don’t you be afraid, for I am with you. Don’t be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you. Yes, I will help you. Yes, I will uphold you with the right hand of my righteousness.
(Ezek 34:30)	They will know that I, Yahweh, their God am with them, and that they, the house of Israel, are my people, says the Lord Yahweh.
(2Chr 15:2)	and he went out to meet Asa, and said to him, “Hear me, Asa, and all Judah and Benjamin! Yahweh is with you, while you are with him; and if you seek him, he will be found by you; but if you forsake him, he will forsake you.
(Deut 31:8)	Yahweh himself is who goes before you. He will be with you. He will not fail you nor forsake you. Don’t be afraid. Don’t be discouraged.”
(John 14:23)	Jesus answered him, “If a man loves me, he will keep my word. My Father will love him, and we will come to him, and make our home with him.
(Joel 2:27)	You will know that I am among Israel, and that I am Yahweh, your God, and there is no one else; and my people will never again be disappointed.
＊	HIS LOVE
(Ps 4:3)	But know that Yahweh has set apart for himself him who is godly: Yahweh will hear when I call to him.
(Deut 7:13)	He will love you, bless you, and multiply you. He will also bless the fruit of your body and the fruit of your ground, your grain and your new wine and your oil, the increase of your livestock and the young of your flock, in the land which he swore to your fathers to give you.
(Ps 42:8)	Yahweh [42:8 “Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.] will command his loving kindness in the daytime. In the night his song shall be with me: a prayer to the God of my life.
(Ps 146:8)	Yahweh opens the eyes of the blind. Yahweh raises up those who are bowed down. Yahweh loves the righteous.
(Hos 14:4)	“I will heal their waywardness. I will love them freely; for my anger is turned away from him.
(Prov 15:9)	The way of the wicked is an abomination to Yahweh, but he loves him who follows after righteousness.
(Isa 62:4)	You will not be called Forsaken any more, nor will your land be called Desolate any more; but you will be called Hephzibah, [62:4 Hephzibah means “I delight in her”.] and your land Beulah; [62:4 Beulah means “married”] for Yahweh delights in you, and your land will be married.
(Isa 62:5)	For as a young man marries a virgin, so your sons will marry you. As a bridegroom rejoices over his bride, so your God will rejoice over you.
(Isa 43:4)	Since you have been precious and honored in my sight, and I have loved you, therefore I will give people in your place, and nations instead of your life.
(Jer 31:3)	Yahweh appeared of old to me, saying, “Yes, I have loved you with an everlasting love. Therefore I have drawn you with loving kindness.
(Jer 32:41)	Yes, I will rejoice over them to do them good, and I will plant them in this land assuredly with my whole heart and with my whole soul.”
(Zeph 3:17)	Yahweh, your God, is among you, a mighty one who will save. He will rejoice over you with joy. He will calm you in his love. He will rejoice over you with singing.
(Eph 2:4)	But God, being rich in mercy, for his great love with which he loved us,
(Rom 9:25)	As he says also in Hosea, “I will call them ‘my people,’ which were not my people; and her ‘beloved,’ who was not beloved.” [9:25 Hosea 2:23 ]
(Ps 103:4)	who redeems your life from destruction, who crowns you with loving kindness and tender mercies,
(John 16:27)	for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me, and have believed that I came from God.
(2Thess 2:16)	Now our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God our Father, who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope through grace,
(John 17:23)	I in them, and you in me, that they may be perfected into one; that the world may know that you sent me and loved them, even as you loved me.
(John 17:26)	I made known to them your name, and will make it known; that the love with which you loved me may be in them, and I in them.”
(1John 4:10)	In this is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his Son as the atoning sacrifice [4:10 “atoning sacrifice” is from the Greek “ιλασμος”, an appeasing, propitiating, or the means of appeasement or propitiation—the sacrifice that turns away God’s wrath because of our sin. ] for our sins.
(1John 4:16)	We know and have believed the love which God has for us. God is love, and he who remains in love remains in God, and God remains in him.
(1John 4:19)	We love him, because he first loved us.
＊	HIS MERCY
(Isa 60:10)	“Foreigners will build up your walls, and their kings will serve you: for in my wrath I struck you, but in my favor I have had mercy on you.
(Deut 4:31)	For Yahweh your God is a merciful God. He will not fail you nor destroy you, nor forget the covenant of your fathers which he swore to them.
(Jer 31:20)	Is Ephraim my dear son? Is he a darling child? For as often as I speak against him, I still earnestly remember him. therefore my heart yearns for him. I will surely have mercy on him,” says Yahweh.
(Hos 2:23)	I will sow her to me in the earth; and I will have mercy on her who had not obtained mercy; and I will tell those who were not my people, ‘You are my people;’ and they will say, ‘My God!’”
(Isa 48:9)	For my name’s sake, I will defer my anger, and for my praise, I hold it back for you so that I don’t cut you off.
(Isa 30:18)	Therefore Yahweh will wait, that he may be gracious to you; and therefore he will be exalted, that he may have mercy on you, for Yahweh is a God of justice. Blessed are all those who wait for him.
(Ps 103:13)	Like a father has compassion on his children, so Yahweh has compassion on those who fear him.
(Ps 103:17)	But Yahweh’s loving kindness is from everlasting to everlasting with those who fear him, his righteousness to children’s children,
(Hos 11:8)	“How can I give you up, Ephraim? How can I hand you over, Israel? How can I make you like Admah? How can I make you like Zeboiim? My heart is turned within me, my compassion is aroused.
(Hos 11:9)	I will not execute the fierceness of my anger. I will not return to destroy Ephraim: for I am God, and not man; the Holy One among you; and I will not come in wrath.
(Job 11:6)	that he would show you the secrets of wisdom! For true wisdom has two sides. Know therefore that God exacts of you less than your iniquity deserves.
(Exod 33:19)	He said, “I will make all my goodness pass before you, and will proclaim Yahweh’s name before you. I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will show mercy on whom I will show mercy.”
＊	HIS HELP
(Ps 46:11)	Yahweh of Armies is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah.
(Rom 8:31)	What then shall we say about these things? If God is for us, who can be against us?
(Hos 13:9)	You are destroyed, Israel, because you are against me, against your help.
(Ps 40:17)	But I am poor and needy. May the Lord think about me. You are my help and my deliverer. Don’t delay, my God.
(Deut 33:27)	The eternal God is your dwelling place. Underneath are the everlasting arms. He thrust out the enemy from before you, and said, ‘Destroy!’
(Deut 33:29)	You are happy, Israel! Who is like you, a people saved by Yahweh, the shield of your help, the sword of your excellency? Your enemies will submit themselves to you. You will tread on their high places.”
(Heb 13:6)	So that with good courage we say, “The Lord is my helper. I will not fear. What can man do to me?” [13:6 Psalm 118:6-7 ]
(Isa 41:10)	Don’t you be afraid, for I am with you. Don’t be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you. Yes, I will help you. Yes, I will uphold you with the right hand of my righteousness.
(Isa 41:13)	For I, Yahweh your God, will hold your right hand, saying to you, ‘Don’t be afraid. I will help you.’
(Isa 41:14)	Don’t be afraid, you worm Jacob, and you men of Israel. I will help you,” says Yahweh. “Your Redeemer is the Holy One of Israel.
＊	HIS CARE
(Zech 2:8)	For Yahweh of Armies says: ‘For honor he has sent me to the nations which plundered you; for he who touches you touches the apple of his eye.
(1Pet 5:7)	casting all your worries on him, because he cares for you.
(Ps 33:18)	Behold, Yahweh’s eye is on those who fear him, on those who hope in his loving kindness,
(Isa 46:3)	“Listen to me, house of Jacob, and all the remnant of the house of Israel, that have been carried from their birth, that have been carried from the womb.
(Isa 46:4)	Even to old age I am he, and even to gray hairs I will carry you. I have made, and I will bear. Yes, I will carry, and will deliver.
(Luke 21:18)	And not a hair of your head will perish.
(Matt 10:30)	but the very hairs of your head are all numbered.
(Isa 63:9)	In all their affliction he was afflicted, and the angel of his presence saved them. In his love and in his pity he redeemed them. He bore them, and carried them all the days of old.
(Deut 32:11)	As an eagle that stirs up her nest, that flutters over her young, he spread abroad his wings, he took them, he bore them on his feathers.
(Deut 32:12)	Yahweh alone led him. There was no foreign god with him.
＊	HIS COVENANT WITH HIS PEOPLE
(Isa 55:3)	Turn your ear, and come to me. Hear, and your soul will live. I will make an everlasting covenant with you, even the sure mercies of David.
(2Sam 23:5)	Isn’t my house so with God? Yet he has made with me an everlasting covenant, ordered in all things, and sure, for it is all my salvation, and all my desire, although he doesn’t make it grow.
(Hos 2:19)	I will betroth you to me forever. Yes, I will betroth you to me in righteousness, in justice, in loving kindness, and in compassion.
(Hos 2:20)	I will even betroth you to me in faithfulness; and you shall know Yahweh.
＊	GOD WILL NOT FORSAKE THEM
(Isa 44:21)	Remember these things, Jacob and Israel; for you are my servant. I have formed you. You are my servant. Israel, you will not be forgotten by me.
(Lev 26:11)	I will set my tent among you, and my soul won’t abhor you.
(Ps 94:14)	For Yahweh won’t reject his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance.
(Isa 49:14)	But Zion said, “Yahweh has forsaken me, and the Lord has forgotten me.”
(Isa 49:16)	Behold, I have engraved you on the palms of my hands. Your walls are continually before me.
(Isa 54:9)	“For this is like the waters of Noah to me; for as I have sworn that the waters of Noah will no more go over the earth, so I have sworn that I will not be angry with you, nor rebuke you.
(Isa 54:10)	For the mountains may depart, and the hills be removed; but my loving kindness will not depart from you, and my covenant of peace will not be removed,” says Yahweh who has mercy on you.
(Heb 13:5)	Be free from the love of money, content with such things as you have, for he has said, “I will in no way leave you, neither will I in any way forsake you.” [13:5 Deuteronomy 31:6 ]
(Ps 9:10)	Those who know your name will put their trust in you, for you, Yahweh, have not forsaken those who seek you.
(Isa 42:16)	I will bring the blind by a way that they don’t know. I will lead them in paths that they don’t know. I will make darkness light before them, and crooked places straight. I will do these things, and I will not forsake them.
(Ps 37:28)	For Yahweh loves justice, and doesn’t forsake his saints. They are preserved forever, but the children of the wicked shall be cut off.
(Lam 3:31)	For the Lord will not cast off forever.
(Lam 3:32)	For though he causes grief, yet he will have compassion according to the multitude of his loving kindnesses.
(Jer 32:40)	I will make an everlasting covenant with them, that I will not turn away from following them, to do them good. I will put my fear in their hearts, that they may not depart from me.
＊	18. AN INTEREST IN CHRIST
(Isa 55:4)	Behold, I have given him for a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander to the peoples.
(Isa 9:6)	For a child is born to us. A son is given to us; and the government will be on his shoulders. His name will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.
(Song 2:16)	[Beloved] My beloved is mine, and I am his. He browses among the lilies.
(John 6:37)	All those whom the Father gives me will come to me. He who comes to me I will in no way throw out.
(John 3:16)	For God so loved the world, that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life.
(Ezek 34:23)	I will set up one shepherd over them, and he will feed them, even my servant David. He will feed them, and he will be their shepherd.
(Mal 4:2)	But to you who fear my name shall the sun of righteousness arise with healing in its wings. You will go out, and leap like calves of the stall.
(Isa 42:6)	“I, Yahweh, have called you in righteousness. I will hold your hand. I will keep you, and make you a covenant for the people, as a light for the nations,
＊	ALL GRACE FROM CHRIST
(John 1:16)	From his fullness we all received grace upon grace.
(John 1:17)	For the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth were realized through Jesus Christ.
(Eph 1:23)	which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all.
(Isa 45:24)	They will say of me, ‘There is righteousness and strength only in Yahweh.’” Even to him will men come. All those who raged against him will be disappointed.
(1Cor 1:30)	Because of him, you are in Christ Jesus, who was made to us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification, and redemption:
(Acts 5:31)	God exalted him with his right hand to be a Prince and a Savior, to give repentance to Israel, and remission of sins.
＊	REDEMPTION BY CHRIST
(Isa 49:9)	saying to those who are bound, ‘Come out!’; to those who are in darkness, ‘Show yourselves!’ “They shall feed along the paths, and their pasture shall be on all treeless heights.
(Isa 42:7)	to open the blind eyes, to bring the prisoners out of the dungeon, and those who sit in darkness out of the prison.
(1Pet 1:18)	knowing that you were redeemed, not with corruptible things, with silver or gold, from the useless way of life handed down from your fathers,
(1Pet 1:19)	but with precious blood, as of a lamb without blemish or spot, the blood of Christ,
(Mark 10:45)	For the Son of Man also came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.”
(Gal 3:13)	Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us. For it is written, “Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree,” [3:13 Deuteronomy 21:23 ]
(Eph 1:7)	in whom we have our redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace,
(Eph 5:2)	Walk in love, even as Christ also loved us and gave himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling fragrance.
(Gal 4:4)	But when the fullness of the time came, God sent out his Son, born to a woman, born under the law,
(Gal 4:5)	that he might redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of children.
(Heb 9:14)	how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without defect to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
(Heb 9:15)	For this reason he is the mediator of a new covenant, since a death has occurred for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first covenant, that those who have been called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
(1Cor 5:7)	Purge out the old yeast, that you may be a new lump, even as you are unleavened. For indeed Christ, our Passover, has been sacrificed in our place.
(Rev 5:9)	They sang a new song, saying, “You are worthy to take the book and to open its seals: for you were killed, and bought us for God with your blood out of every tribe, language, people, and nation,
＊	LIFE FROM HIM
(John 14:19)	Yet a little while, and the world will see me no more; but you will see me. Because I live, you will live also.
(John 6:57)	As the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father; so he who feeds on me, he will also live because of me.
(Col 3:3)	For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God.
(Col 3:4)	When Christ, our life, is revealed, then you will also be revealed with him in glory.
(Gal 2:20)	I have been crucified with Christ, and it is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. That life which I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me, and gave himself up for me.
(Eph 2:1)	You were made alive when you were dead in transgressions and sins,
(Eph 2:5)	even when we were dead through our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ—by grace you have been saved—
(Eph 2:6)	and raised us up with him, and made us to sit with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus,
(1John 5:12)	He who has the Son has the life. He who doesn’t have God’s Son doesn’t have the life.
(John 10:10)	The thief only comes to steal, kill, and destroy. I came that they may have life, and may have it abundantly.
(John 5:21)	For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, even so the Son also gives life to whom he desires.
(2Cor 13:4)	For he was crucified through weakness, yet he lives through the power of God. For we also are weak in him, but we will live with him through the power of God toward you.
(Rom 6:8)	But if we died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him;
(Rom 6:11)	Thus consider yourselves also to be dead to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus our Lord.
＊	HIS INTERCESSION
(Isa 53:12)	Therefore I will give him a portion with the great. He will divide the plunder with the strong; because he poured out his soul to death and was counted with the transgressors; yet he bore the sins of many and made intercession for the transgressors.
(Heb 7:25)	Therefore he is also able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, seeing that he lives forever to make intercession for them.
(Rom 8:34)	Who is he who condemns? It is Christ who died, yes rather, who was raised from the dead, who is at the right hand of God, who also makes intercession for us.
(Heb 9:24)	For Christ hasn’t entered into holy places made with hands, which are representations of the true, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us;
(Heb 4:14)	Having then a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let’s hold tightly to our confession.
(Heb 4:16)	Let’s therefore draw near with boldness to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and may find grace for help in time of need.
＊	HIS LOVE
(John 15:9)	Even as the Father has loved me, I also have loved you. Remain in my love.
(John 13:1)	Now before the feast of the Passover, Jesus, knowing that his time had come that he would depart from this world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end.
(John 13:34)	A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another. Just as I have loved you, you also love one another.
(Rev 3:9)	Behold, I give some of the synagogue of Satan, of those who say they are Jews, and they are not, but lie—behold, I will make them to come and worship before your feet, and to know that I have loved you.
(Ps 45:11)	So the king will desire your beauty, honor him, for he is your lord.
(Eph 5:2)	Walk in love, even as Christ also loved us and gave himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling fragrance.
(Song 7:10)	[Beloved] I am my beloved’s. His desire is toward me.
(Song 4:9)	You have ravished my heart, my sister, my bride. You have ravished my heart with one of your eyes, with one chain of your neck.
(Rev 1:5)	and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth. To him who loves us, and washed us from our sins by his blood—
(Rom 8:37)	No, in all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us.
(Song 2:4)	He brought me to the banquet hall. His banner over me is love.
(Song 2:6)	His left hand is under my head. His right hand embraces me.
＊	HIS CARE OF HIS CHURCH
(Rev 2:1)	“To the angel of the assembly in Ephesus write: “He who holds the seven stars in his right hand, he who walks among the seven golden lamp stands says these things:
(Isa 40:11)	He will feed his flock like a shepherd. He will gather the lambs in his arm, and carry them in his bosom. He will gently lead those who have their young.
(Isa 42:3)	He won’t break a bruised reed. He won’t quench a dimly burning wick. He will faithfully bring justice.
(Eph 5:25)	Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the assembly, and gave himself up for it;
(Eph 5:27)	that he might present the assembly to himself gloriously, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing; but that it should be holy and without defect.
(Eph 5:29)	For no man ever hated his own flesh; but nourishes and cherishes it, even as the Lord also does the assembly;
＊	HIS PRESENCE WITH HIS PEOPLE
(1John 1:3)	that which we have seen and heard we declare to you, that you also may have fellowship with us. Yes, and our fellowship is with the Father, and with his Son, Jesus Christ.
(John 14:18)	I will not leave you orphans. I will come to you.
(John 14:21)	One who has my commandments and keeps them, that person is one who loves me. One who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him, and will reveal myself to him.”
(Rev 3:20)	Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, then I will come in to him, and will dine with him, and he with me.
＊	19. PROMISES OF THE SPIRIT
(Prov 1:23)	Turn at my reproof. Behold, [1:23 “Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.] I will pour out my spirit on you. I will make known my words to you.
(Isa 32:15)	until the Spirit is poured on us from on high, and the wilderness becomes a fruitful field, and the fruitful field is considered a forest.
(Ezek 36:27)	I will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes. You will keep my ordinances and do them.
(Luke 11:13)	If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him?”
(Isa 59:21)	“As for me, this is my covenant with them,” says Yahweh. “My Spirit who is on you, and my words which I have put in your mouth shall not depart out of your mouth, nor out of the mouth of your offspring, nor out of the mouth of your offspring’s offspring,” says Yahweh, “from now on and forever.”
(John 4:10)	Jesus answered her, “If you knew the gift of God, and who it is who says to you, ‘Give me a drink,’ you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water.”
(John 4:14)	but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never thirst again; but the water that I will give him will become in him a well of water springing up to eternal life.”
(2Tim 1:14)	That good thing which was committed to you, guard through the Holy Spirit who dwells in us.
(Gal 3:14)	that the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Christ Jesus, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.
(1Cor 2:12)	But we received not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is from God, that we might know the things that were freely given to us by God.
(John 7:38)	He who believes in me, as the Scripture has said, from within him will flow rivers of living water.”
(John 7:39)	But he said this about the Spirit, which those believing in him were to receive. For the Holy Spirit was not yet given, because Jesus wasn’t yet glorified.
(John 14:16)	I will pray to the Father, and he will give you another Counselor, [14:16 Greek παρακλητον: Counselor, Helper, Intercessor, Advocate, and Comforter.] that he may be with you forever:
(John 14:17)	the Spirit of truth, whom the world can’t receive; for it doesn’t see him and doesn’t know him. You know him, for he lives with you, and will be in you.
＊	HIS TEACHING
(Luke 12:12)	for the Holy Spirit will teach you in that same hour what you must say.”
(1Cor 2:10)	But to us, God revealed them through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, yes, the deep things of God.
(John 16:13)	However when he, the Spirit of truth, has come, he will guide you into all truth, for he will not speak from himself; but whatever he hears, he will speak. He will declare to you things that are coming.
(1John 2:27)	As for you, the anointing which you received from him remains in you, and you don’t need for anyone to teach you. But as his anointing teaches you concerning all things, and is true, and is no lie, and even as it taught you, you will remain in him.
＊	HELP IN PRAYER
(Gal 4:6)	And because you are children, God sent out the Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying, “Abba, [4:6 Abba is a Greek spelling for the Aramaic word for “Father” or “Daddy” used in a familiar, respectful, and loving way. ] Father!”
(Zech 12:10)	I will pour on David’s house, and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the spirit of grace and of supplication; and they will look to me [12:10 After “me”, the Hebrew has the two letters “Aleph Tav” (the first and last letters of the Hebrew alphabet), not as a word, but as a grammatical marker.] whom they have pierced; and they shall mourn for him, as one mourns for his only son, and will grieve bitterly for him, as one grieves for his firstborn.
(Rom 8:15)	For you didn’t receive the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you received the Spirit of adoption, by whom we cry, “Abba! [8:15 Abba is an Aramaic word for “Father” or “Daddy”, which can be used affectionately and respectfully in prayer to our Father in heaven.] Father!”
(Rom 8:26)	In the same way, the Spirit also helps our weaknesses, for we don’t know how to pray as we ought. But the Spirit himself makes intercession for us with groanings which can’t be uttered.
(Rom 8:27)	He who searches the hearts knows what is on the Spirit’s mind, because he makes intercession for the saints according to God.
(Ps 10:17)	Yahweh, you have heard the desire of the humble. You will prepare their heart. You will cause your ear to hear,
＊	TO WITNESS OUR ADOPTION
(Rom 8:16)	The Spirit himself testifies with our spirit that we are children of God;
＊	TO SEAL OUR REDEMPTION
(2Cor 1:22)	who also sealed us, and gave us the down payment of the Spirit in our hearts.
(Eph 4:30)	Don’t grieve the Holy Spirit of God, in whom you were sealed for the day of redemption.
(2Cor 5:5)	Now he who made us for this very thing is God, who also gave to us the down payment of the Spirit.
(Rom 5:5)	and hope doesn’t disappoint us, because God’s love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who was given to us.
(Eph 1:13)	In him you also, having heard the word of the truth, the Good News of your salvation—in whom, having also believed, you were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit,
(Eph 1:14)	who is a pledge of our inheritance, to the redemption of God’s own possession, to the praise of his glory.
＊	TO BE OUR COMFORTER
(John 14:16)	I will pray to the Father, and he will give you another Counselor, [14:16 Greek παρακλητον: Counselor, Helper, Intercessor, Advocate, and Comforter.] that he may be with you forever:
(John 14:18)	I will not leave you orphans. I will come to you.
(Acts 9:31)	So the assemblies throughout all Judea, Galilee, and Samaria had peace, and were built up. They were multiplied, walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit.
＊	THE JOYS OF THE HOLY GHOST
(Rom 14:17)	for God’s Kingdom is not eating and drinking, but righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit.
＊	20. THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS
(Ps 34:7)	Yahweh’s angel encamps around those who fear him, and delivers them.
(Heb 1:14)	Aren’t they all serving spirits, sent out to do service for the sake of those who will inherit salvation?
(Ps 91:11)	For he will put his angels in charge of you, to guard you in all your ways.
(Ps 91:12)	They will bear you up in their hands, so that you won’t dash your foot against a stone.
(Matt 18:10)	See that you don’t despise one of these little ones, for I tell you that in heaven their angels always see the face of my Father who is in heaven.
＊	21. THAT WE SHALL BE KINGS AND PRIESTS UNTO GOD
(Rev 1:6)	and he made us to be a Kingdom, priests [1:6 Exodus 19:6 ; Isaiah 61:6 ] to his God and Father—to him be the glory and the dominion forever and ever. Amen.
(Exod 19:6)	and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests, and a holy nation.’ These are the words which you shall speak to the children of Israel.”
(Rev 5:10)	and made us kings and priests to our God, and we will reign on the earth.”
(1Pet 2:9)	But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God’s own possession, that you may proclaim the excellence of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light.
＊	22. PEACE OF CONSCIENCE, COMFORT, AND HOPE
＊	PEACE OF CONSCIENCE
(Isa 32:17)	The work of righteousness will be peace, and the effect of righteousness, quietness and confidence forever.
(Ps 25:13)	His soul will dwell at ease. His offspring will inherit the land.
(Luke 7:50)	He said to the woman, “Your faith has saved you. Go in peace.”
(Ps 85:8)	I will hear what God, Yahweh, will speak, for he will speak peace to his people, his saints; but let them not turn again to folly.
(Ps 147:3)	He heals the broken in heart, and binds up their wounds.
(2Thess 3:16)	Now may the Lord of peace himself give you peace at all times in all ways. The Lord be with you all.
(Col 3:15)	And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you were called in one body, and be thankful.
(John 14:27)	Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you; not as the world gives, I give to you. Don’t let your heart be troubled, neither let it be fearful.
(Isa 57:19)	I create the fruit of the lips: Peace, peace, to him who is far off and to him who is near,” says Yahweh; “and I will heal them.”
(Phil 4:7)	And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.
＊	COMFORT
(Isa 12:1)	In that day you will say, “I will give thanks to you, Yahweh; for though you were angry with me, your anger has turned away and you comfort me.
(John 14:18)	I will not leave you orphans. I will come to you.
(Isa 49:13)	Sing, heavens, and be joyful, earth! Break out into singing, mountains, for Yahweh has comforted his people, and will have compassion on his afflicted.
(Isa 57:18)	I have seen his ways, and will heal him. I will lead him also, and restore comforts to him and to his mourners.
(Jer 6:16)	Yahweh says, “Stand in the ways and see, and ask for the old paths, ‘Where is the good way?’ and walk in it, and you will find rest for your souls. But they said, ‘We will not walk in it.’
(Isa 54:7)	“For a small moment I have forsaken you, but I will gather you with great mercies.
(Isa 54:8)	In overflowing wrath I hid my face from you for a moment, but with everlasting loving kindness I will have mercy on you,” says Yahweh your Redeemer.
(Isa 61:1)	The Lord Yahweh’s Spirit is on me, because Yahweh has anointed me to preach good news to the humble. He has sent me to bind up the broken hearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives and release to those who are bound,
(Isa 61:3)	to provide for those who mourn in Zion, to give to them a garland for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness, that they may be called trees of righteousness, the planting of Yahweh, that he may be glorified.
(Isa 51:12)	“I, even I, am he who comforts you. Who are you, that you are afraid of man who shall die, and of the son of man who will be made as grass?
(Prov 14:14)	The unfaithful will be repaid for his own ways; likewise a good man will be rewarded for his ways.
(2Cor 7:6)	Nevertheless, he who comforts the lowly, God, comforted us by the coming of Titus,
(2Thess 2:16)	Now our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God our Father, who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope through grace,
(2Thess 2:17)	comfort your hearts and establish you in every good work and word.
(Isa 66:11)	that you may nurse and be satisfied at the comforting breasts; that you may drink deeply, and be delighted with the abundance of her glory.”
(Isa 66:13)	As one whom his mother comforts, so I will comfort you. You will be comforted in Jerusalem.”
(2Cor 1:3)	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort;
(2Cor 1:4)	who comforts us in all our affliction, that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction, through the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God.
＊	HOPE
(1John 3:3)	Everyone who has this hope set on him purifies himself, even as he is pure.
(Ps 31:24)	Be strong, and let your heart take courage, all you who hope in Yahweh.
(Ps 42:11)	Why are you in despair, my soul? Why are you disturbed within me? Hope in God! For I shall still praise him, the saving help of my countenance, and my God.
(Heb 6:18)	that by two immutable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we may have a strong encouragement, who have fled for refuge to take hold of the hope set before us.
(Heb 6:19)	This hope we have as an anchor of the soul, a hope both sure and steadfast and entering into that which is within the veil;
(1Pet 1:3)	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
(1Pet 1:13)	Therefore prepare your minds for action. [1:13 literally, “gird up the waist of your mind” or “put on the belt of the waist of your mind”] Be sober, and set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ—
(1Pet 1:21)	who through him are believers in God, who raised him from the dead, and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope might be in God.
(Ps 71:5)	For you are my hope, Lord Yahweh, my confidence from my youth.
(Ps 94:19)	In the multitude of my thoughts within me, your comforts delight my soul.
(Col 1:5)	because of the hope which is laid up for you in the heavens, of which you heard before in the word of the truth of the Good News
(Col 1:23)	if it is so that you continue in the faith, grounded and steadfast, and not moved away from the hope of the Good News which you heard, which is being proclaimed in all creation under heaven, of which I, Paul, was made a servant.
(Col 1:27)	to whom God was pleased to make known what are the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory.
＊	23. DELIGHT AND JOY IN GOD
(Neh 8:10)	Then he said to them, “Go your way. Eat the fat, drink the sweet, and send portions to him for whom nothing is prepared, for today is holy to our Lord. Don’t be grieved, for the joy of Yahweh is your strength.”
(Isa 55:12)	For you shall go out with joy, and be led out with peace. The mountains and the hills will break out before you into singing; and all the trees of the fields will clap their hands.
(Ps 68:3)	But let the righteous be glad. Let them rejoice before God. Yes, let them rejoice with gladness.
(Ps 4:7)	You have put gladness in my heart, more than when their grain and their new wine are increased.
(Ps 64:10)	The righteous shall be glad in Yahweh, and shall take refuge in him. All the upright in heart shall praise him!
(Ps 63:5)	My soul shall be satisfied as with the richest food. My mouth shall praise you with joyful lips,
(Isa 65:14)	Behold, my servants will sing for joy of heart, but you will cry for sorrow of heart, and will wail for anguish of spirit.
(Ps 118:15)	The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents of the righteous. “The right hand of Yahweh does valiantly.
(Ps 97:11)	Light is sown for the righteous, and gladness for the upright in heart.
(Job 22:26)	For then you will delight yourself in the Almighty, and will lift up your face to God.
(Ps 126:5)	Those who sow in tears will reap in joy.
(Ps 126:6)	He who goes out weeping, carrying seed for sowing, will certainly come again with joy, carrying his sheaves.
(Ps 89:15)	Blessed are the people who learn to acclaim you. They walk in the light of your presence, Yahweh.
(Ps 89:16)	In your name they rejoice all day. In your righteousness, they are exalted.
(Isa 61:7)	Instead of your shame you will have double. Instead of dishonor, they will rejoice in their portion. Therefore in their land they will possess double. Everlasting joy will be to them.
(Isa 61:10)	I will greatly rejoice in Yahweh! My soul will be joyful in my God, for he has clothed me with the garments of salvation. He has covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decks himself with a garland and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels.
(Rom 5:2)	through whom we also have our access by faith into this grace in which we stand. We rejoice in hope of the glory of God.
(Isa 41:16)	You will winnow them, and the wind will carry them away, and the whirlwind will scatter them. You will rejoice in Yahweh. You will glory in the Holy One of Israel.
(Ps 33:21)	For our heart rejoices in him, because we have trusted in his holy name.
(Song 1:4)	Take me away with you. Let’s hurry. The king has brought me into his rooms. [Friends] We will be glad and rejoice in you. We will praise your love more than wine! [Beloved] They are right to love you.
(John 16:22)	Therefore you now have sorrow, but I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and no one will take your joy away from you.
(Isa 9:3)	You have multiplied the nation. You have increased their joy. They rejoice before you according to the joy in harvest, as men rejoice when they divide the plunder.
(1Pet 1:8)	whom, not having known, you love. In him, though now you don’t see him, yet believing, you rejoice greatly with joy that is unspeakable and full of glory,
(Isa 51:11)	Those ransomed by Yahweh will return, and come with singing to Zion. Everlasting joy shall be on their heads. They will obtain gladness and joy. Sorrow and sighing shall flee away.
(Hab 3:18)	yet I will rejoice in Yahweh. I will be joyful in the God of my salvation!
(John 15:11)	I have spoken these things to you, that my joy may remain in you, and that your joy may be made full.
＊	24. SUPPORT IN DEATH
(Prov 14:32)	The wicked is brought down in his calamity, but in death, the righteous has a refuge.
(Ps 37:37)	Mark the perfect man, and see the upright, for there is a future for the man of peace.
(Ps 49:15)	But God will redeem my soul from the power of Sheol, [49:15 Sheol is the place of the dead.] for he will receive me. Selah.
(Ps 48:14)	For this God is our God forever and ever. He will be our guide even to death.
(Ps 73:26)	My flesh and my heart fails, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever.
(Rom 8:38)	For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers,
(Rom 8:39)	nor height, nor depth, nor any other created thing will be able to separate us from God’s love which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
(Isa 25:8)	He has swallowed up death forever! The Lord Yahweh will wipe away tears from off all faces. He will take the reproach of his people away from off all the earth, for Yahweh has spoken it.
(2Cor 4:16)	Therefore we don’t faint, but though our outward man is decaying, yet our inward man is renewed day by day.
(2Tim 1:12)	For this cause I also suffer these things. Yet I am not ashamed, for I know him whom I have believed, and I am persuaded that he is able to guard that which I have committed to him against that day.
(Ps 23:4)	Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me.
(Hos 13:14)	I will ransom them from the power of Sheol. [13:14 Sheol is the place of the dead.] I will redeem them from death! Death, where are your plagues? Sheol, where is your destruction? “Compassion will be hidden from my eyes.
(1Cor 15:55)	“Death, where is your sting? Hades, [15:55 or, Hell] where is your victory?” [15:55 See Hosea 13:14 ]
(1Cor 15:57)	But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
(Heb 2:14)	Since then the children have shared in flesh and blood, he also himself in the same way partook of the same, that through death he might bring to nothing him who had the power of death, that is, the devil,
(Heb 2:15)	and might deliver all of them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage.
＊	Chapter 4
＊	PROMISES OF BLESSINGS IN THE FUTURE WORLD
＊	1. DELIVERANCE FROM HELL
(Isa 45:17)	Israel will be saved by Yahweh with an everlasting salvation. You will not be disappointed nor confounded to ages everlasting.
(Prov 10:2)	Treasures of wickedness profit nothing, but righteousness delivers from death.
(Prov 11:4)	Riches don’t profit in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death.
(Prov 15:24)	The path of life leads upward for the wise, to keep him from going downward to Sheol. [15:24 Sheol is the place of the dead.]
(Ps 86:13)	For your loving kindness is great toward me. You have delivered my soul from the lowest Sheol. [86:13 Sheol is the place of the dead.]
(Rom 5:9)	Much more then, being now justified by his blood, we will be saved from God’s wrath through him.
(John 8:51)	Most certainly, I tell you, if a person keeps my word, he will never see death.”
(1Thess 1:10)	and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead: Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath to come.
(John 3:16)	For God so loved the world, that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life.
(1Thess 5:9)	For God didn’t appoint us to wrath, but to the obtaining of salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
(Rev 20:6)	Blessed and holy is he who has part in the first resurrection. Over these, the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and will reign with him one thousand years.
＊	2. HAPPINESS IMMEDIATELY AFTER DEATH
(Isa 57:2)	He enters into peace. They rest in their beds, each one who walks in his uprightness.
(2Cor 5:8)	We are courageous, I say, and are willing rather to be absent from the body and to be at home with the Lord.
(Luke 16:25)	“But Abraham said, ‘Son, remember that you, in your lifetime, received your good things, and Lazarus, in the same way, bad things. But here he is now comforted, and you are in anguish.
(Ps 73:24)	You will guide me with your counsel, and afterward receive me to glory.
(Ps 49:15)	But God will redeem my soul from the power of Sheol, [49:15 Sheol is the place of the dead.] for he will receive me. Selah.
(Luke 23:43)	Jesus said to him, “Assuredly I tell you, today you will be with me in Paradise.”
(Phil 1:21)	For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
(Phil 1:23)	But I am hard pressed between the two, having the desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far better.
(Heb 12:22)	But you have come to Mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable multitudes of angels,
(Heb 12:23)	to the festal gathering and assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, to God the Judge of all, to the spirits of just men made perfect,
(Job 3:17)	There the wicked cease from troubling. There the weary are at rest.
(Job 3:18)	There the prisoners are at ease together. They don’t hear the voice of the taskmaster.
(Rev 14:13)	I heard a voice from heaven saying, “Write, ‘Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on.’” “Yes,” says the Spirit, “that they may rest from their labors; for their works follow with them.”
＊	3. A GLORIOUS RESURRECTION
(Dan 12:2)	Many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth will awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt.
(Ps 16:9)	Therefore my heart is glad, and my tongue rejoices. My body shall also dwell in safety.
(Ps 16:10)	For you will not leave my soul in Sheol, [16:10 Sheol is the place of the dead.] neither will you allow your holy one to see corruption.
(Isa 26:19)	Your dead shall live. My dead bodies shall arise. Awake and sing, you who dwell in the dust; for your dew is like the dew of herbs, and the earth will cast out the departed spirits.
(John 5:28)	Don’t marvel at this, for the hour comes in which all who are in the tombs will hear his voice,
(John 5:29)	and will come out; those who have done good, to the resurrection of life; and those who have done evil, to the resurrection of judgment.
(Luke 20:35)	But those who are considered worthy to attain to that age and the resurrection from the dead neither marry nor are given in marriage.
(Luke 20:36)	For they can’t die any more, for they are like the angels, and are children of God, being children of the resurrection.
(Job 19:26)	After my skin is destroyed, then I will see God in my flesh,
(Job 19:27)	whom I, even I, will see on my side. My eyes will see, and not as a stranger. “My heart is consumed within me.
(John 6:39)	This is the will of my Father who sent me, that of all he has given to me I should lose nothing, but should raise him up at the last day.
(John 6:40)	This is the will of the one who sent me, that everyone who sees the Son, and believes in him, should have eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day.”
(John 6:54)	He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day.
(2Cor 5:1)	For we know that if the earthly house of our tent is dissolved, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal, in the heavens.
(2Cor 5:4)	For indeed we who are in this tent do groan, being burdened, not that we desire to be unclothed, but that we desire to be clothed, that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life.
(Rom 8:11)	But if the Spirit of him who raised up Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised up Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you.
(1Cor 15:21)	For since death came by man, the resurrection of the dead also came by man.
(1Cor 15:42)	So also is the resurrection of the dead. The body is sown perishable; it is raised imperishable.
(1Cor 15:44)	It is sown a natural body; it is raised a spiritual body. There is a natural body and there is also a spiritual body.
(1Cor 15:49)	As we have borne the image of those made of dust, let’s [15:49 NU, TR read “we will” instead of “let’s”] also bear the image of the heavenly.
(1Cor 15:51)	Behold, [15:51 “Behold”, from “ἰδοὺ”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.] I tell you a mystery. We will not all sleep, but we will all be changed,
(1Cor 15:54)	But when this perishable body will have become imperishable, and this mortal will have put on immortality, then what is written will happen: “Death is swallowed up in victory.” [15:54 Isaiah 25:8 ]
(John 11:25)	Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will still live, even if he dies.
(2Cor 4:14)	knowing that he who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus, and will present us with you.
(1Cor 6:2)	Don’t you know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is judged by you, are you unworthy to judge the smallest matters?
(1Cor 6:3)	Don’t you know that we will judge angels? How much more, things that pertain to this life?
(Phil 3:21)	who will change the body of our humiliation to be conformed to the body of his glory, according to the working by which he is able even to subject all things to himself.
(1Thess 4:14)	For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep in Jesus.
(1Thess 4:17)	then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air. So we will be with the Lord forever.
(2Tim 1:10)	but has now been revealed by the appearing of our Savior, Christ Jesus, who abolished death, and brought life and immortality to light through the Good News.
＊	4. EVERLASTING HAPPINESS IN HEAVEN
(Rom 2:7)	to those who by perseverance in well-doing seek for glory, honor, and incorruptibility, eternal life;
(Rom 5:10)	For if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his Son, much more, being reconciled, we will be saved by his life.
(Rom 5:17)	For if by the trespass of the one, death reigned through the one; so much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness reign in life through the one, Jesus Christ.
(2Thess 1:5)	This is an obvious sign of the righteous judgment of God, to the end that you may be counted worthy of God’s Kingdom, for which you also suffer.
(2Thess 1:7)	and to give relief to you who are afflicted with us, when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire,
(2Thess 1:10)	when he comes in that day to be glorified in his saints and to be admired among all those who have believed, because our testimony to you was believed.
(2Thess 1:12)	that the name of our Lord Jesus [1:12 TR adds “Christ”] may be glorified in you, and you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ.
(Heb 4:9)	There remains therefore a Sabbath rest for the people of God.
(Ps 49:14)	They are appointed as a flock for Sheol. [49:14 Sheol is the place of the dead.] Death shall be their shepherd. The upright shall have dominion over them in the morning. Their beauty shall decay in Sheol, [49:14 Sheol is the place of the dead. ] far from their mansion.
(2Pet 3:13)	But, according to his promise, we look for new heavens and a new earth, in which righteousness dwells.
(Rev 3:4)	Nevertheless you have a few names in Sardis that didn’t defile their garments. They will walk with me in white, for they are worthy.
(John 14:2)	In my Father’s house are many homes. If it weren’t so, I would have told you. I am going to prepare a place for you.
(John 14:3)	If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and will receive you to myself; that where I am, you may be there also.
(Heb 11:9)	By faith, he lived as an alien in the land of promise, as in a land not his own, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise.
(Heb 11:10)	For he looked for the city which has the foundations, whose builder and maker is God.
(Heb 11:16)	But now they desire a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God, for he has prepared a city for them.
(Rev 22:5)	There will be no night, and they need no lamp light or sun light; for the Lord God will illuminate them. They will reign forever and ever.
(Isa 60:20)	Your sun will not go down any more, nor will your moon withdraw itself; for Yahweh will be your everlasting light, and the days of your mourning will end.
(1Pet 1:9)	receiving the result of your faith, the salvation of your souls.
(1Pet 1:13)	Therefore prepare your minds for action. [1:13 literally, “gird up the waist of your mind” or “put on the belt of the waist of your mind”] Be sober, and set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ—
(Heb 9:15)	For this reason he is the mediator of a new covenant, since a death has occurred for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first covenant, that those who have been called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
(Rev 7:15)	Therefore they are before the throne of God, they serve him day and night in his temple. He who sits on the throne will spread his tabernacle over them.
(Rev 7:17)	for the Lamb who is in the middle of the throne shepherds them and leads them to springs of life-giving waters. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.”
(1Cor 2:9)	But as it is written, “Things which an eye didn’t see, and an ear didn’t hear, which didn’t enter into the heart of man, these God has prepared for those who love him.” [2:9 Isaiah 64:4 ]
(1John 3:2)	Beloved, now we are children of God. It is not yet revealed what we will be; but we know that when he is revealed, we will be like him; for we will see him just as he is.
(Rev 11:18)	The nations were angry, and your wrath came, as did the time for the dead to be judged, and to give your bondservants the prophets, their reward, as well as to the saints, and those who fear your name, to the small and the great, and to destroy those who destroy the earth.”
(John 17:22)	The glory which you have given me, I have given to them; that they may be one, even as we are one;
(John 17:24)	Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me be with me where I am, that they may see my glory, which you have given me, for you loved me before the foundation of the world.
(Rev 21:22)	I saw no temple in it, for the Lord God, the Almighty, and the Lamb, are its temple.
(Rev 21:23)	The city has no need for the sun or moon to shine, for the very glory of God illuminated it, and its lamp is the Lamb.
(Rev 2:10)	Don’t be afraid of the things which you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison, that you may be tested; and you will have oppression for ten days. Be faithful to death, and I will give you the crown of life.
＊	FREEDOM FROM ALL SORROW IN HEAVEN
(Rev 22:3)	There will be no curse any more. The throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will serve him.
(Isa 60:20)	Your sun will not go down any more, nor will your moon withdraw itself; for Yahweh will be your everlasting light, and the days of your mourning will end.
(Matt 6:20)	but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust consume, and where thieves don’t break through and steal;
(Rev 21:4)	He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Death will be no more; neither will there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain, any more. The first things have passed away.”
＊	JOY IN HEAVEN
(Matt 25:21)	“His lord said to him, ‘Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a few things, I will set you over many things. Enter into the joy of your lord.’
(Jude 1:24)	Now to him who is able to keep them [1:24 TR and NU read “you”] from stumbling, and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory in great joy,
(Ps 16:11)	You will show me the path of life. In your presence is fullness of joy. In your right hand there are pleasures forever more.
＊	GLORY IN HEAVEN
(Matt 13:43)	Then the righteous will shine like the sun in the Kingdom of their Father. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.
(1Pet 4:13)	But because you are partakers of Christ’s sufferings, rejoice, that at the revelation of his glory you also may rejoice with exceeding joy.
(Col 3:4)	When Christ, our life, is revealed, then you will also be revealed with him in glory.
(2Tim 2:10)	Therefore I endure all things for the chosen ones’ sake, that they also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.
(Rom 8:17)	and if children, then heirs: heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified with him.
(Rom 8:18)	For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which will be revealed toward us.
(2Cor 4:17)	For our light affliction, which is for the moment, works for us more and more exceedingly an eternal weight of glory,
(2Cor 4:18)	while we don’t look at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal.
(Dan 12:3)	Those who are wise will shine as the brightness of the expanse. Those who turn many to righteousness will shine as the stars forever and ever.
＊	THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN
(Luke 12:32)	Don’t be afraid, little flock, for it is your Father’s good pleasure to give you the Kingdom.
(2Tim 4:18)	And the Lord will deliver me from every evil work, and will preserve me for his heavenly Kingdom. To him be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
(Matt 25:34)	Then the King will tell those on his right hand, ‘Come, blessed of my Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world;
(2Pet 1:11)	For thus you will be richly supplied with the entrance into the eternal Kingdom of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.
(Luke 22:29)	I confer on you a kingdom, even as my Father conferred on me,
(Luke 22:30)	that you may eat and drink at my table in my Kingdom. You will sit on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.”
＊	THE HEAVENLY INHERITANCE
(Eph 1:18)	having the eyes of your hearts [1:18 TR reads “understanding” instead of “hearts”] enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of his calling, and what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints,
(1Pet 1:3)	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
(1Pet 1:4)	to an incorruptible and undefiled inheritance that doesn’t fade away, reserved in Heaven for you,
＊	ENJOYMENT OF GOD
(1Thess 4:17)	then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air. So we will be with the Lord forever.
(Ps 36:9)	For with you is the spring of life. In your light we will see light.
(Ps 17:15)	As for me, I shall see your face in righteousness. I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with seeing your form.
(Rev 22:3)	There will be no curse any more. The throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will serve him.
(Rev 22:4)	They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads.
＊	ETERNAL LIFE
(Matt 25:46)	These will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.”
(1John 2:25)	This is the promise which he promised us, the eternal life.
(John 6:47)	Most certainly, I tell you, he who believes in me has eternal life.
(John 6:51)	I am the living bread which came down out of heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. Yes, the bread which I will give for the life of the world is my flesh.”
(John 6:54)	He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day.
(Rom 6:23)	For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.
(Gal 6:8)	For he who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption. But he who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life.
(Luke 20:36)	For they can’t die any more, for they are like the angels, and are children of God, being children of the resurrection.
(Titus 1:2)	in hope of eternal life, which God, who can’t lie, promised before time began;
(John 10:27)	My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me.
(John 10:28)	I give eternal life to them. They will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand.
(John 11:25)	Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will still live, even if he dies.
(John 11:26)	Whoever lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this?”
(Rom 2:7)	to those who by perseverance in well-doing seek for glory, honor, and incorruptibility, eternal life;
(1John 5:11)	The testimony is this, that God gave to us eternal life, and this life is in his Son.
(1John 5:13)	These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life, and that you may continue to believe in the name of the Son of God.
(John 3:16)	For God so loved the world, that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life.
＊	PART TWO
＊	PROMISES FOR THE EXERCISE OF DUTIES AND GLORIES
＊	CHAPTER 1
＊	IN THE FULFILLMENT OF DUTY TOWARD GOD
＊	1. TO FAITH IN CHRIST
(Isa 28:16)	Therefore the Lord Yahweh says, “Behold, I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone, a tried stone, a precious cornerstone of a sure foundation. He who believes shall not act hastily.
(1Pet 2:6)	Because it is contained in Scripture, “Behold, [2:6 “Behold”, from “הִנֵּה” or “ἰδοὺ”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.] I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, chosen and precious: He who believes in him will not be disappointed.” [2:6 Isaiah 28:16 ]
(John 12:46)	I have come as a light into the world, that whoever believes in me may not remain in the darkness.
(John 3:16)	For God so loved the world, that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life.
(John 3:18)	He who believes in him is not judged. He who doesn’t believe has been judged already, because he has not believed in the name of the one and only Son of God.
(John 3:36)	One who believes in the Son has eternal life, but one who disobeys [3:36 The same word can be translated “disobeys” or “disbelieves” in this context.] the Son won’t see life, but the wrath of God remains on him.”
(John 6:47)	Most certainly, I tell you, he who believes in me has eternal life.
(Eph 2:8)	for by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God,
(Luke 7:50)	He said to the woman, “Your faith has saved you. Go in peace.”
(Isa 45:22)	“Look to me, and be saved, all the ends of the earth; for I am God, and there is no other.
(Mark 9:23)	Jesus said to him, “If you can believe, all things are possible to him who believes.”
(Rom 10:4)	For Christ is the fulfillment [10:4 or, completion, or end] of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes.
(Acts 16:31)	They said, “Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved, you and your household.”
(Rom 9:33)	even as it is written, “Behold, [9:33 “Behold”, from “ἰδοὺ”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.] I lay in Zion a stumbling stone and a rock of offense; and no one who believes in him will be disappointed.” [9:33 Isaiah 8:14 ; 28:16 ]
(Rom 4:5)	But to him who doesn’t work, but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is accounted for righteousness.
(Acts 10:43)	All the prophets testify about him, that through his name everyone who believes in him will receive remission of sins.”
(Matt 11:28)	“Come to me, all you who labor and are heavily burdened, and I will give you rest.
(Heb 10:38)	But the righteous will live by faith. If he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him.” [10:38 Habakkuk 2:3-4 ]
(Heb 10:39)	But we are not of those who shrink back to destruction, but of those who have faith to the saving of the soul.
(John 6:35)	Jesus said to them, “I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me will not be hungry, and whoever believes in me will never be thirsty.
(John 6:37)	All those whom the Father gives me will come to me. He who comes to me I will in no way throw out.
(Gal 3:9)	So then, those who are of faith are blessed with the faithful Abraham.
(Gal 3:7)	Know therefore that those who are of faith are children of Abraham.
(Gal 3:22)	But the Scripture imprisoned all things under sin, that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe.
(1Pet 2:4)	coming to him, a living stone, rejected indeed by men, but chosen by God, precious.
(1Pet 2:5)	You also, as living stones, are built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.
(John 20:29)	Jesus said to him, “Because you have seen me, [20:29 TR adds “Thomas,”] you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen, and have believed.”
(1Tim 4:10)	For to this end we both labor and suffer reproach, because we have set our trust in the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of those who believe.
(Heb 6:12)	that you won’t be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and perseverance inherited the promises.
(John 1:12)	But as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become God’s children, to those who believe in his name:
＊	CONFESSING CHRIST
(1John 4:15)	Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God remains in him, and he in God.
(Matt 10:32)	Everyone therefore who confesses me before men, I will also confess him before my Father who is in heaven.
(Rom 10:9)	that if you will confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.
(Rom 10:10)	For with the heart, one believes resulting in righteousness; and with the mouth confession is made resulting in salvation.
＊	2. TO REPENTANCE
(Jer 36:3)	It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the evil which I intend to do to them; that they may each return from his evil way; that I may forgive their iniquity and their sin.”
(Zech 1:3)	Therefore tell them: Yahweh of Armies says: ‘Return to me,’ says Yahweh of Armies, ‘and I will return to you,’ says Yahweh of Armies.
(Mal 3:7)	From the days of your fathers you have turned away from my ordinances, and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you,” says Yahweh of Armies. “But you say, ‘How shall we return?’
(2Chr 30:9)	For if you turn again to Yahweh, your brothers and your children will find compassion before those who led them captive, and will come again into this land, because Yahweh your God is gracious and merciful, and will not turn away his face from you, if you return to him.”
(Jer 4:14)	Jerusalem, wash your heart from wickedness, that you may be saved. How long will your evil thoughts lodge within you?
(2Chr 7:14)	if my people, who are called by my name, will humble themselves, pray, seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven, will forgive their sin, and will heal their land.
(Jer 26:3)	It may be they will listen, and every man turn from his evil way; that I may relent from the evil which I intend to do to them because of the evil of their doings.’
(Jer 26:13)	Now therefore amend your ways and your doings, and obey Yahweh your God’s voice; then Yahweh will relent from the evil that he has pronounced against you.
(Jer 18:8)	if that nation, concerning which I have spoken, turns from their evil, I will repent of the evil that I thought to do to them.
(Isa 55:7)	Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts. Let him return to Yahweh, and he will have mercy on him, to our God, for he will freely pardon.
(Ezek 18:21)	“But if the wicked turns from all his sins that he has committed, and keeps all my statutes, and does that which is lawful and right, he shall surely live. He shall not die.
(Ezek 18:23)	Have I any pleasure in the death of the wicked?” says the Lord Yahweh; “and not rather that he should return from his way, and live?
(Ezek 18:30)	“Therefore I will judge you, house of Israel, everyone according to his ways,” says the Lord Yahweh. “Return, and turn yourselves from all your transgressions; so iniquity will not be your ruin.
(Ezek 18:32)	For I have no pleasure in the death of him who dies,” says the Lord Yahweh. “Therefore turn yourselves, and live!
(Ps 37:27)	Depart from evil, and do good. Live securely forever.
(Prov 1:23)	Turn at my reproof. Behold, [1:23 “Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.] I will pour out my spirit on you. I will make known my words to you.
(Joel 2:12)	“Yet even now,” says Yahweh, “turn to me with all your heart, and with fasting, and with weeping, and with mourning.”
(Joel 2:14)	Who knows? He may turn and relent, and leave a blessing behind him, even a meal offering and a drink offering to Yahweh, your God.
(Ezek 33:14)	Again, when I say to the wicked, “You will surely die;” if he turns from his sin, and does that which is lawful and right;
(Ezek 33:16)	None of his sins that he has committed will be remembered against him. He has done that which is lawful and right. He will surely live.
(Ezek 33:19)	When the wicked turns from his wickedness, and does that which is lawful and right, he will live by it.
(Job 22:23)	If you return to the Almighty, you will be built up, if you put away unrighteousness far from your tents.
(Eph 5:14)	Therefore he says, “Awake, you who sleep, and arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you.”
(Acts 2:38)	Peter said to them, “Repent, and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
(Acts 3:19)	“Repent therefore, and turn again, that your sins may be blotted out, so that there may come times of refreshing from the presence of the Lord,
＊	TO THEM THAT MOURN FOR THE WICKEDNESS OF THE LAND
(Ezek 9:4)	Yahweh said to him, “Go through the middle of the city, through the middle of Jerusalem, and set a mark on the foreheads of the men that sigh and that cry over all the abominations that are done within it.”
(Ezek 9:6)	Kill utterly the old man, the young man, the virgin, little children and women; but don’t come near any man on whom is the mark. Begin at my sanctuary.” Then they began at the old men who were before the house.
＊	REPENTING IN AFFLICTION
(Hos 6:1)	“Come! Let’s return to Yahweh; for he has torn us to pieces, and he will heal us; he has injured us, and he will bind up our wounds.
(Job 33:27)	He sings before men, and says, ‘I have sinned, and perverted that which was right, and it didn’t profit me.
(Job 33:28)	He has redeemed my soul from going into the pit. My life will see the light.’
(Deut 4:30)	When you are in oppression, and all these things have come on you, in the latter days you shall return to Yahweh your God and listen to his voice.
(Deut 4:31)	For Yahweh your God is a merciful God. He will not fail you nor destroy you, nor forget the covenant of your fathers which he swore to them.
＊	CONFESSION OF SIN
(Prov 28:13)	He who conceals his sins doesn’t prosper, but whoever confesses and renounces them finds mercy.
(Ps 32:5)	I acknowledged my sin to you. I didn’t hide my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to Yahweh, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Selah.
(Ps 32:7)	You are my hiding place. You will preserve me from trouble. You will surround me with songs of deliverance. Selah.
(1John 1:9)	If we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous to forgive us the sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
(Luke 15:21)	The son said to him, ‘Father, I have sinned against heaven and in your sight. I am no longer worthy to be called your son.’
(Luke 15:22)	“But the father said to his servants, ‘Bring out the best robe, and put it on him. Put a ring on his hand, and sandals on his feet.
(Lev 26:40)	“‘If they confess their iniquity and the iniquity of their fathers, in their trespass which they trespassed against me; and also that because they walked contrary to me,
(Lev 26:42)	then I will remember my covenant with Jacob, my covenant with Isaac, and also my covenant with Abraham; and I will remember the land.
(Jer 3:12)	Go, and proclaim these words toward the north, and say, ‘Return, you backsliding Israel,’ says Yahweh; ‘I will not look in anger on you; for I am merciful,’ says Yahweh. ‘I will not keep anger forever.
(Jer 3:13)	Only acknowledge your iniquity, that you have transgressed against Yahweh your God, and have scattered your ways to the strangers under every green tree, and you have not obeyed my voice,’ says Yahweh.”
＊	3. OBEDIENCE
(Ps 106:3)	Blessed are those who keep justice. Blessed is one who does what is right at all times.
(Matt 5:19)	Whoever, therefore, shall break one of these least commandments, and teach others to do so, shall be called least in the Kingdom of Heaven; but whoever shall do and teach them shall be called great in the Kingdom of Heaven.
(Deut 4:1)	Now, Israel, listen to the statutes and to the ordinances which I teach you, to do them; that you may live, and go in and possess the land which Yahweh, the God of your fathers, gives you.
(Deut 4:6)	Keep therefore and do them; for this is your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples who shall hear all these statutes and say, “Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people.”
(Deut 29:9)	Therefore keep the words of this covenant and do them, that you may prosper in all that you do.
(Deut 11:27)	the blessing, if you listen to the commandments of Yahweh your God, which I command you today;
(Deut 5:29)	Oh that there were such a heart in them that they would fear me and keep all my commandments always, that it might be well with them and with their children forever!
(Deut 7:12)	It shall happen, because you listen to these ordinances and keep and do them, that Yahweh your God will keep with you the covenant and the loving kindness which he swore to your fathers.
(Deut 6:3)	Hear therefore, Israel, and observe to do it, that it may be well with you, and that you may increase mightily, as Yahweh, the God of your fathers, has promised to you, in a land flowing with milk and honey.
(Deut 6:18)	You shall do that which is right and good in Yahweh’s sight, that it may be well with you and that you may go in and possess the good land which Yahweh swore to your fathers,
(Deut 6:19)	to thrust out all your enemies from before you, as Yahweh has spoken.
(Lev 25:18)	“‘Therefore you shall do my statutes, and keep my ordinances and do them; and you shall dwell in the land in safety.
(Lev 25:19)	The land shall yield its fruit, and you shall eat your fill, and dwell therein in safety.
(1Sam 12:14)	If you will fear Yahweh, and serve him, and listen to his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of Yahweh, then both you and also the king who reigns over you are followers of Yahweh your God.
(Deut 32:46)	He said to them, “Set your heart to all the words which I testify to you today, which you shall command your children to observe to do, all the words of this law.
(Deut 32:47)	For it is no vain thing for you, because it is your life, and through this thing you shall prolong your days in the land, where you go over the Jordan to possess it.”
(Deut 13:17)	Nothing of the devoted thing shall cling to your hand, that Yahweh may turn from the fierceness of his anger and show you mercy, and have compassion on you and multiply you, as he has sworn to your fathers,
(Deut 13:18)	when you listen to Yahweh your God’s voice, to keep all his commandments which I command you today, to do that which is right in Yahweh your God’s eyes.
(2Chr 15:7)	But you be strong, and don’t let your hands be slack; for your work will be rewarded.”
(Ps 25:10)	All the paths of Yahweh are loving kindness and truth to such as keep his covenant and his testimonies.
(Job 36:11)	If they listen and serve him, they will spend their days in prosperity, and their years in pleasures.
(Exod 19:5)	Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice, and keep my covenant, then you shall be my own possession from among all peoples; for all the earth is mine;
(Ps 119:1)	ALEPH Blessed are those whose ways are blameless, who walk according to Yahweh’s law.
(Ps 119:2)	Blessed are those who keep his statutes, who seek him with their whole heart.
(Ps 119:6)	Then I wouldn’t be disappointed, when I consider all of your commandments.
(1Chr 22:12)	May Yahweh give you discretion and understanding, and put you in charge of Israel; that so you may keep the law of Yahweh your God.
(1Chr 22:13)	Then you will prosper, if you observe to do the statutes and the ordinances which Yahweh gave Moses concerning Israel. Be strong and courageous. Don’t be afraid, and don’t be dismayed.
(Prov 19:16)	He who keeps the commandment keeps his soul, but he who is contemptuous in his ways shall die.
(Isa 48:18)	Oh that you had listened to my commandments! Then your peace would have been like a river and your righteousness like the waves of the sea.
(Rev 22:14)	Blessed are those who do his commandments, [22:14 NU reads “wash their robes” instead of “do his commandments”.] that they may have the right to the tree of life, and may enter in by the gates into the city.
(Jer 7:23)	but this thing I commanded them, saying, ‘Listen to my voice, and I will be your God, and you shall be my people. Walk in all the way that I command you, that it may be well with you.’
(1Kgs 2:3)	and keep the instruction of Yahweh your God, to walk in his ways, to keep his statutes, his commandments, his ordinances, and his testimonies, according to that which is written in the law of Moses, that you may prosper in all that you do, and wherever you turn yourself.
(Deut 30:15)	Behold, I have set before you today life and prosperity, and death and evil.
(Deut 30:16)	For I command you today to love Yahweh your God, to walk in his ways and to keep his commandments, his statutes, and his ordinances, that you may live and multiply, and that Yahweh your God may bless you in the land where you go in to possess it.
(1John 2:17)	The world is passing away with its lusts, but he who does God’s will remains forever.
(John 13:17)	If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them.
(Ps 50:23)	Whoever offers the sacrifice of thanksgiving glorifies me, and prepares his way so that I will show God’s salvation to him.”
(John 7:17)	If anyone desires to do his will, he will know about the teaching, whether it is from God, or if I am speaking from myself.
(Matt 12:50)	For whoever does the will of my Father who is in heaven, he is my brother, and sister, and mother.”
(1John 3:22)	so whatever we ask, we receive from him, because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his sight.
(Matt 7:21)	Not everyone who says to me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ will enter into the Kingdom of Heaven; but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven.
(Jas 1:25)	But he who looks into the perfect law of freedom and continues, not being a hearer who forgets, but a doer of the work, this man will be blessed in what he does.
(Prov 29:18)	Where there is no revelation, the people cast off restraint; but one who keeps the law is blessed.
(Rom 2:13)	For it isn’t the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law will be justified
(Isa 1:19)	If you are willing and obedient, you will eat the good of the land;
(Phil 4:9)	The things which you learned, received, heard, and saw in me: do these things, and the God of peace will be with you.
＊	OBEYING CHRIST
(John 15:10)	If you keep my commandments, you will remain in my love; even as I have kept my Father’s commandments, and remain in his love.
(Heb 5:9)	Having been made perfect, he became to all of those who obey him the author of eternal salvation,
(Exod 23:22)	But if you indeed listen to his voice, and do all that I speak, then I will be an enemy to your enemies, and an adversary to your adversaries.
(Isa 50:10)	Who among you fears Yahweh and obeys the voice of his servant? He who walks in darkness and has no light, let him trust in Yahweh’s name, and rely on his God.
(John 8:51)	Most certainly, I tell you, if a person keeps my word, he will never see death.”
(John 5:24)	“Most certainly I tell you, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life, and doesn’t come into judgment, but has passed out of death into life.
(Matt 7:24)	“Everyone therefore who hears these words of mine, and does them, I will liken him to a wise man, who built his house on a rock.
(Matt 7:25)	The rain came down, the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat on that house; and it didn’t fall, for it was founded on the rock.
＊	4. TO SINCERITY AND UPRIGHTNESS
(Ps 18:25)	With the merciful you will show yourself merciful. With the perfect man, you will show yourself perfect.
(1Chr 29:17)	I know also, my God, that you try the heart, and have pleasure in uprightness. As for me, in the uprightness of my heart I have willingly offered all these things. Now I have seen with joy your people, who are present here, offer willingly to you.
(Ps 11:7)	For Yahweh is righteous. He loves righteousness. The upright shall see his face.
(2Chr 16:9)	For Yahweh’s eyes run back and forth throughout the whole earth, to show himself strong in the behalf of them whose heart is perfect toward him. You have done foolishly in this; for from now on you will have wars.”
(Prov 10:29)	The way of Yahweh is a stronghold to the upright, but it is a destruction to the workers of iniquity.
(Prov 13:6)	Righteousness guards the way of integrity, but wickedness overthrows the sinner.
(Ps 119:80)	Let my heart be blameless toward your decrees, that I may not be disappointed.
(Ps 125:4)	Do good, Yahweh, to those who are good, to those who are upright in their hearts.
(Ps 37:18)	Yahweh knows the days of the perfect. Their inheritance shall be forever.
(Ps 15:1)	A Psalm by David. Yahweh, who shall dwell in your sanctuary? Who shall live on your holy hill?
(Ps 15:2)	He who walks blamelessly and does what is right, and speaks truth in his heart;
(Prov 11:3)	The integrity of the upright shall guide them, but the perverseness of the treacherous shall destroy them.
(Prov 11:6)	The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them, but the unfaithful will be trapped by evil desires.
(Prov 11:20)	Those who are perverse in heart are an abomination to Yahweh, but those whose ways are blameless are his delight.
(Prov 2:7)	He lays up sound wisdom for the upright. He is a shield to those who walk in integrity,
(Prov 2:21)	For the upright will dwell in the land. The perfect will remain in it.
(Prov 15:8)	The sacrifice made by the wicked is an abomination to Yahweh, but the prayer of the upright is his delight.
(Prov 12:22)	Lying lips are an abomination to Yahweh, but those who do the truth are his delight.
(Mic 2:7)	Shall it be said, O house of Jacob: “Is Yahweh’s Spirit angry? Are these his doings? Don’t my words do good to him who walks blamelessly?”
(1John 3:21)	Beloved, if our hearts don’t condemn us, we have boldness toward God;
(Rom 14:22)	Do you have faith? Have it to yourself before God. Happy is he who doesn’t judge himself in that which he approves.
(Prov 21:18)	The wicked is a ransom for the righteous, the treacherous for the upright.
(Job 8:6)	If you were pure and upright, surely now he would awaken for you, and make the habitation of your righteousness prosperous.
(Prov 28:10)	Whoever causes the upright to go astray in an evil way, he will fall into his own trap; but the blameless will inherit good.
(Prov 28:18)	Whoever walks blamelessly is kept safe; but one with perverse ways will fall suddenly.
(Prov 28:20)	A faithful man is rich with blessings; but one who is eager to be rich will not go unpunished.
＊	5. TO THE LOVE OF GOD
(Neh 1:5)	and said, “I beg you, Yahweh, [1:5 “Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.] the God of heaven, the great and awesome God, who keeps covenant and loving kindness with those who love him and keep his commandments:
(Rom 8:28)	We know that all things work together for good for those who love God, for those who are called according to his purpose.
(Ps 91:14)	“Because he has set his love on me, therefore I will deliver him. I will set him on high, because he has known my name.
(Ps 37:4)	Also delight yourself in Yahweh, and he will give you the desires of your heart.
(Exod 20:6)	and showing loving kindness to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments.
(Deut 7:9)	Know therefore that Yahweh your God himself is God, the faithful God, who keeps covenant and loving kindness to a thousand generations with those who love him and keep his commandments,
(Deut 11:13)	It shall happen, if you shall listen diligently to my commandments which I command you today, to love Yahweh your God, and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul,
(Deut 11:14)	that I will give the rain for your land in its season, the early rain and the latter rain, that you may gather in your grain, your new wine, and your oil.
(Ps 145:20)	Yahweh preserves all those who love him, but he will destroy all the wicked.
(1Cor 8:3)	But if anyone loves God, the same is known by him.
(Judg 5:31)	“So let all your enemies perish, Yahweh, but let those who love him be as the sun when it rises in its strength.” Then the land had rest forty years.
(Jas 2:5)	Listen, my beloved brothers. Didn’t God choose those who are poor in this world to be rich in faith, and heirs of the Kingdom which he promised to those who love him?
(1Cor 2:9)	But as it is written, “Things which an eye didn’t see, and an ear didn’t hear, which didn’t enter into the heart of man, these God has prepared for those who love him.” [2:9 Isaiah 64:4 ]
(Dan 9:4)	I prayed to Yahweh my God, and made confession, and said, “Oh, Lord, the great and dreadful God, who keeps covenant and loving kindness with those who love him and keep his commandments,
＊	TO THE LOVE OF CHRIST
(John 14:21)	One who has my commandments and keeps them, that person is one who loves me. One who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him, and will reveal myself to him.”
(2Tim 4:8)	From now on, the crown of righteousness is stored up for me, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will give to me on that day; and not to me only, but also to all those who have loved his appearing.
(Eph 6:24)	Grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ with incorruptible love. Amen.
(Jas 1:12)	Blessed is a person who endures temptation, for when he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life, which the Lord promised to those who love him.
(Prov 8:17)	I love those who love me. Those who seek me diligently will find me.
(Prov 8:21)	that I may give wealth to those who love me. I fill their treasuries.
＊	6. TO TRUSTING AND PATIENTLY WAITING ON GOD
(Ps 18:30)	As for God, his way is perfect. Yahweh’s word is tried. He is a shield to all those who take refuge in him.
(Ps 2:12)	Give sincere homage to the Son, [2:12 or, Kiss the son] lest he be angry, and you perish on the way, for his wrath will soon be kindled. Blessed are all those who take refuge in him.
(Ps 125:1)	A Song of Ascents. Those who trust in Yahweh are as Mount Zion, which can’t be moved, but remains forever.
(Ps 27:14)	Wait for Yahweh. Be strong, and let your heart take courage. Yes, wait for Yahweh.
(Ps 31:19)	Oh how great is your goodness, which you have laid up for those who fear you, which you have worked for those who take refuge in you, before the sons of men!
(Ps 31:24)	Be strong, and let your heart take courage, all you who hope in Yahweh.
(Ps 26:1)	By David. Judge me, Yahweh, for I have walked in my integrity. I have trusted also in Yahweh without wavering.
(Ps 34:8)	Oh taste and see that Yahweh is good. Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him.
(Ps 84:12)	Yahweh of Armies, blessed is the man who trusts in you.
(Ps 40:4)	Blessed is the man who makes Yahweh his trust, and doesn’t respect the proud, nor such as turn away to lies.
(Ps 56:4)	In God, I praise his word. In God, I put my trust. I will not be afraid. What can flesh do to me?
(Isa 25:9)	It shall be said in that day, “Behold, this is our God! We have waited for him, and he will save us! This is Yahweh! We have waited for him. We will be glad and rejoice in his salvation!”
(Ps 112:7)	He will not be afraid of evil news. His heart is steadfast, trusting in Yahweh.
(Ps 112:8)	His heart is established. He will not be afraid in the end when he sees his adversaries.
(Ps 37:3)	Trust in Yahweh, and do good. Dwell in the land, and enjoy safe pasture.
(Ps 37:9)	For evildoers shall be cut off, but those who wait for Yahweh shall inherit the land.
(Ps 37:40)	Yahweh helps them and rescues them. He rescues them from the wicked and saves them, because they have taken refuge in him.
(Isa 30:18)	Therefore Yahweh will wait, that he may be gracious to you; and therefore he will be exalted, that he may have mercy on you, for Yahweh is a God of justice. Blessed are all those who wait for him.
(Isa 49:23)	Kings shall be your foster fathers, and their queens your nursing mothers. They will bow down to you with their faces to the earth, and lick the dust of your feet. Then you will know that I am Yahweh; and those who wait for me shall not be disappointed.”
(Prov 28:25)	One who is greedy stirs up strife; but one who trusts in Yahweh will prosper.
(Ps 146:5)	Happy is he who has the God of Jacob for his help, whose hope is in Yahweh, his God:
(Prov 16:3)	Commit your deeds to Yahweh, and your plans shall succeed.
(Prov 16:20)	He who heeds the Word finds prosperity. Whoever trusts in Yahweh is blessed.
(Isa 26:3)	You will keep whoever’s mind is steadfast in perfect peace, because he trusts in you.
(Isa 26:4)	Trust in Yahweh forever; for in Yah, Yahweh, is an everlasting Rock.
(Jer 17:7)	“Blessed is the man who trusts in Yahweh, and whose confidence is in Yahweh.
(Jer 17:8)	For he will be as a tree planted by the waters, who spreads out its roots by the river, and will not fear when heat comes, but its leaf will be green, and will not be concerned in the year of drought. It won’t cease from yielding fruit.
(Rom 8:24)	For we were saved in hope, but hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for that which he sees?
(Nah 1:7)	Yahweh is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble; and he knows those who take refuge in him.
(Prov 29:25)	The fear of man proves to be a snare, but whoever puts his trust in Yahweh is kept safe.
(1Pet 5:7)	casting all your worries on him, because he cares for you.
(Mic 7:7)	But as for me, I will look to Yahweh. I will wait for the God of my salvation. My God will hear me.
(Isa 57:13)	When you cry, let those whom you have gathered deliver you; but the wind will take them. a breath will carry them all away: but he who takes refuge in me will possess the land, and will inherit my holy mountain.”
(Ps 34:22)	Yahweh redeems the soul of his servants. None of those who take refuge in him shall be condemned.
(Lam 3:25)	Yahweh is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him.
(Lam 3:26)	It is good that a man should hope and quietly wait for the salvation of Yahweh.
＊	7. TO THE FEAR OF GOD
(Ps 85:9)	Surely his salvation is near those who fear him, that glory may dwell in our land.
(Ps 115:13)	He will bless those who fear Yahweh, both small and great.
(Prov 16:6)	By mercy and truth iniquity is atoned for. By the fear of Yahweh men depart from evil.
(Eccl 8:12)	Though a sinner commits crimes a hundred times, and lives long, yet surely I know that it will be better with those who fear God, who are reverent before him.
(Ps 128:1)	A Song of Ascents. Blessed is everyone who fears Yahweh, who walks in his ways.
(Ps 31:19)	Oh how great is your goodness, which you have laid up for those who fear you, which you have worked for those who take refuge in you, before the sons of men!
(Ps 25:14)	The friendship of Yahweh is with those who fear him. He will show them his covenant.
(Ps 103:11)	For as the heavens are high above the earth, so great is his loving kindness toward those who fear him.
(Prov 3:7)	Don’t be wise in your own eyes. Fear Yahweh, and depart from evil.
(Prov 3:8)	It will be health to your body, and nourishment to your bones.
(Prov 14:26)	In the fear of Yahweh is a secure fortress, and he will be a refuge for his children.
(Prov 14:27)	The fear of Yahweh is a fountain of life, turning people from the snares of death.
(Ps 147:11)	Yahweh takes pleasure in those who fear him, in those who hope in his loving kindness.
(Luke 1:50)	His mercy is for generations of generations on those who fear him.
(Acts 13:26)	Brothers, children of the stock of Abraham, and those among you who fear God, the word of this salvation is sent out to you.
(Acts 10:35)	but in every nation he who fears him and works righteousness is acceptable to him.
(Mal 4:2)	But to you who fear my name shall the sun of righteousness arise with healing in its wings. You will go out, and leap like calves of the stall.
(Prov 19:23)	The fear of Yahweh leads to life, then contentment; he rests and will not be touched by trouble.
＊	HONORING GOD
(1Sam 2:30)	“Therefore Yahweh, the God of Israel, says, ‘I said indeed that your house and the house of your father should walk before me forever.’ But now Yahweh says, ‘Far be it from me; for those who honor me I will honor, and those who despise me will be cursed.
(Prov 3:9)	Honor Yahweh with your substance, with the first fruits of all your increase:
(Prov 3:10)	so your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine.
＊	8. TO PRAYER
(Ps 145:18)	Yahweh is near to all those who call on him, to all who call on him in truth.
(Ps 18:3)	I call on Yahweh, who is worthy to be praised; and I am saved from my enemies.
(Job 33:26)	He prays to God, and he is favorable to him, so that he sees his face with joy. He restores to man his righteousness.
(Ps 10:17)	Yahweh, you have heard the desire of the humble. You will prepare their heart. You will cause your ear to hear,
(Exod 34:24)	For I will drive out nations before you and enlarge your borders; neither shall any man desire your land when you go up to appear before Yahweh, your God, three times in the year.
(Deut 4:7)	For what great nation is there that has a god so near to them as Yahweh our God is whenever we call on him?
(Ps 86:5)	For you, Lord, are good, and ready to forgive, abundant in loving kindness to all those who call on you.
(Ps 86:7)	In the day of my trouble I will call on you, for you will answer me.
(Ps 73:28)	But it is good for me to come close to God. I have made the Lord Yahweh [73:28 “Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.] my refuge, that I may tell of all your works.
(Jas 4:8)	Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners. Purify your hearts, you double-minded.
(Joel 2:32)	It will happen that whoever will call on Yahweh’s name shall be saved; for in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there will be those who escape, as Yahweh has said, and among the remnant, those whom Yahweh calls.
(Ps 6:9)	Yahweh has heard my supplication. Yahweh accepts my prayer.
(Jer 33:3)	‘Call to me, and I will answer you, and will show you great and difficult things, which you don’t know.’
(Ezek 36:37)	“‘The Lord Yahweh says: “For this, moreover, I will be inquired of by the house of Israel, to do it for them: I will increase them with men like a flock.
(Heb 4:14)	Having then a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let’s hold tightly to our confession.
(Heb 4:16)	Let’s therefore draw near with boldness to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and may find grace for help in time of need.
(Ps 55:17)	Evening, morning, and at noon, I will cry out in distress. He will hear my voice.
(Job 22:21)	“Acquaint yourself with him, now, and be at peace. By it, good will come to you.
(Rom 10:12)	For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; for the same Lord is Lord of all, and is rich to all who call on him.
(Rom 10:13)	For, “Whoever will call on the name of the Lord will be saved.” [10:13 Joel 2:32 ]
＊	SEEKING GOD
(1Chr 28:9)	You, Solomon my son, know the God of your father, and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind; for Yahweh searches all hearts, and understands all the imaginations of the thoughts. If you seek him, he will be found by you; but if you forsake him, he will cast you off forever.
(Jer 29:13)	You shall seek me, and find me, when you search for me with all your heart.
(Deut 4:29)	But from there you shall seek Yahweh your God, and you shall find him when you search after him with all your heart and with all your soul.
(Job 8:5)	If you want to seek God diligently, make your supplication to the Almighty.
(Job 8:6)	If you were pure and upright, surely now he would awaken for you, and make the habitation of your righteousness prosperous.
(Amos 5:4)	For Yahweh says to the house of Israel: “Seek me, and you will live;
(Ps 69:32)	The humble have seen it, and are glad. You who seek after God, let your heart live.
(Ps 9:10)	Those who know your name will put their trust in you, for you, Yahweh, have not forsaken those who seek you.
(Isa 45:19)	I have not spoken in secret, in a place of the land of darkness. I didn’t say to the offspring of Jacob, ‘Seek me in vain.’ I, Yahweh, speak righteousness. I declare things that are right.
(Ezra 8:22)	For I was ashamed to ask of the king a band of soldiers and horsemen to help us against the enemy on the way, because we had spoken to the king, saying, “The hand of our God is on all those who seek him, for good; but his power and his wrath is against all those who forsake him.”
(Hos 10:12)	Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap according to kindness. Break up your fallow ground; for it is time to seek Yahweh, until he comes and rains righteousness on you.
(Lam 3:25)	Yahweh is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him.
(Acts 17:27)	that they should seek the Lord, if perhaps they might reach out for him and find him, though he is not far from each one of us.
(2Chr 15:2)	and he went out to meet Asa, and said to him, “Hear me, Asa, and all Judah and Benjamin! Yahweh is with you, while you are with him; and if you seek him, he will be found by you; but if you forsake him, he will forsake you.
(Heb 11:6)	Without faith it is impossible to be well pleasing to him, for he who comes to God must believe that he exists, and that he is a rewarder of those who seek him.
＊	SECRET PRAYER
(Matt 6:6)	But you, when you pray, enter into your inner room, and having shut your door, pray to your Father who is in secret, and your Father who sees in secret will reward you openly.
＊	PRAISING GOD
(Ps 135:3)	Praise Yah, for Yahweh is good. Sing praises to his name, for that is pleasant.
(Ps 69:30)	I will praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him with thanksgiving.
(Ps 69:31)	It will please Yahweh better than an ox, or a bull that has horns and hoofs.
(Ps 92:1)	A Psalm. A song for the Sabbath day. It is a good thing to give thanks to Yahweh, to sing praises to your name, Most High,
(Ps 92:2)	to proclaim your loving kindness in the morning, and your faithfulness every night,
＊	DESIRES OF GRACE
(Ps 81:10)	I am Yahweh, your God, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it.
(Rev 21:6)	He said to me, “I have become the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End. [21:6 TR and NU read [“It is done! I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End.]] I will give freely to him who is thirsty from the spring of the water of life.
(Matt 5:6)	Blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled.
(Rev 22:17)	The Spirit and the bride say, “Come!” He who hears, let him say, “Come!” He who is thirsty, let him come. He who desires, let him take the water of life freely.
(Isa 55:1)	“Hey! Come, everyone who thirsts, to the waters! Come, he who has no money, buy, and eat! Yes, come, buy wine and milk without money and without price.
(John 7:37)	Now on the last and greatest day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, “If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink!
(John 7:38)	He who believes in me, as the Scripture has said, from within him will flow rivers of living water.”
＊	9. TO WISDOM AND KNOWLEDGE
＊	TO THE WISE
(Prov 8:35)	For whoever finds me, finds life, and will obtain favor from Yahweh.
(Prov 1:5)	that the wise man may hear, and increase in learning; that the man of understanding may attain to sound counsel:
(Prov 1:6)	to understand a proverb, and parables, the words and riddles of the wise.
(Prov 13:15)	Good understanding wins favor, but the way of the unfaithful is hard.
(Prov 9:12)	If you are wise, you are wise for yourself. If you mock, you alone will bear it.
(Prov 10:17)	He is in the way of life who heeds correction, but he who forsakes reproof leads others astray.
(Prov 4:6)	Don’t forsake her, and she will preserve you. Love her, and she will keep you.
(Prov 4:8)	Esteem her, and she will exalt you. She will bring you to honor when you embrace her.
(Prov 4:9)	She will give to your head a garland of grace. She will deliver a crown of splendor to you.”
(Prov 3:13)	Happy is the man who finds wisdom, the man who gets understanding.
(Prov 3:18)	She is a tree of life to those who lay hold of her. Happy is everyone who retains her.
(Prov 3:35)	The wise will inherit glory, but shame will be the promotion of fools.
(Prov 11:29)	He who troubles his own house shall inherit the wind. The foolish shall be servant to the wise of heart.
(Prov 21:20)	There is precious treasure and oil in the dwelling of the wise; but a foolish man swallows it up.
(Prov 19:8)	He who gets wisdom loves his own soul. He who keeps understanding shall find good.
(Prov 16:20)	He who heeds the Word finds prosperity. Whoever trusts in Yahweh is blessed.
(Prov 16:22)	Understanding is a fountain of life to one who has it, but the punishment of fools is their folly.
(Eccl 7:12)	For wisdom is a defense, even as money is a defense; but the excellency of knowledge is that wisdom preserves the life of him who has it.
(Prov 24:3)	Through wisdom a house is built; by understanding it is established;
(Prov 24:5)	A wise man has great power; and a knowledgeable man increases strength;
(Prov 24:13)	My son, eat honey, for it is good, the droppings of the honeycomb, which are sweet to your taste;
(Prov 24:14)	so you shall know wisdom to be to your soul. If you have found it, then there will be a reward: Your hope will not be cut off.
(Eccl 10:10)	If the ax is blunt, and one doesn’t sharpen the edge, then he must use more strength; but skill brings success.
(Prov 28:26)	One who trusts in himself is a fool; but one who walks in wisdom is kept safe.
(Prov 12:8)	A man shall be commended according to his wisdom, but he who has a warped mind shall be despised.
(Prov 15:24)	The path of life leads upward for the wise, to keep him from going downward to Sheol. [15:24 Sheol is the place of the dead.]
(Eccl 8:1)	Who is like the wise man? And who knows the interpretation of a thing? A man’s wisdom makes his face shine, and the hardness of his face is changed.
(Dan 2:21)	He changes the times and the seasons. He removes kings, and sets up kings. He gives wisdom to the wise, and knowledge to those who have understanding.
(Hos 14:9)	Who is wise, that he may understand these things? Who is prudent, that he may know them? For the ways of Yahweh are right, and the righteous walk in them; But the rebellious stumble in them.
(Dan 12:3)	Those who are wise will shine as the brightness of the expanse. Those who turn many to righteousness will shine as the stars forever and ever.
(Dan 12:10)	Many will purify themselves, and make themselves white, and be refined; but the wicked will do wickedly; and none of the wicked will understand; but those who are wise will understand.
(Ps 107:43)	Whoever is wise will pay attention to these things. They will consider the loving kindnesses of Yahweh.
＊	LOVE AND STUDY OF WISDOM
(Hos 6:3)	Let’s acknowledge Yahweh. Let’s press on to know Yahweh. As surely as the sun rises, Yahweh will appear. He will come to us like the rain, like the spring rain that waters the earth.”
(Prov 8:17)	I love those who love me. Those who seek me diligently will find me.
(Prov 4:13)	Take firm hold of instruction. Don’t let her go. Keep her, for she is your life.
(Prov 19:20)	Listen to counsel and receive instruction, that you may be wise in your latter end.
(Prov 2:3)	yes, if you call out for discernment, and lift up your voice for understanding;
(Prov 2:5)	then you will understand the fear of Yahweh, and find the knowledge of God. [2:5 The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).]
(2Chr 1:11)	God said to Solomon, “Because this was in your heart, and you have not asked riches, wealth, honor, or the life of those who hate you, nor yet have you asked for long life; but have asked for wisdom and knowledge for yourself, that you may judge my people, over whom I have made you king,
(2Chr 1:12)	therefore wisdom and knowledge is granted to you. I will give you riches, wealth, and honor, such as none of the kings have had who have been before you, and none after you will have.”
＊	KNOWLEDGE OF GOD AND CHRIST
(Ps 91:14)	“Because he has set his love on me, therefore I will deliver him. I will set him on high, because he has known my name.
(John 17:3)	This is eternal life, that they should know you, the only true God, and him whom you sent, Jesus Christ.
(2Pet 1:2)	Grace to you and peace be multiplied in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord,
(2Pet 1:3)	seeing that his divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us by his own glory and virtue,
＊	LEARNING OF CHRIST
(Matt 11:29)	Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart; and you will find rest for your souls.
＊	10. TO A DUE REGARD TO THE WORD OF GOD
＊	TO HEARING AND READING THE WORD
(Prov 8:34)	Blessed is the man who hears me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at my door posts.
(Isa 2:3)	Many peoples shall go and say, “Come, let’s go up to the mountain of Yahweh, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths.” For the law shall go out of Zion, and Yahweh’s word from Jerusalem.
(1Cor 1:21)	For seeing that in the wisdom of God, the world through its wisdom didn’t know God, it was God’s good pleasure through the foolishness of the preaching to save those who believe.
(John 5:39)	“You search the Scriptures, because you think that in them you have eternal life; and these are they which testify about me.
(Mark 4:24)	He said to them, “Take heed what you hear. With whatever measure you measure, it will be measured to you, and more will be given to you who hear.
(Mark 4:25)	For whoever has, to him more will be given, and he who doesn’t have, even that which he has will be taken away from him.”
(Isa 55:2)	Why do you spend money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which doesn’t satisfy? Listen diligently to me, and eat that which is good, and let your soul delight itself in richness.
(Isa 55:3)	Turn your ear, and come to me. Hear, and your soul will live. I will make an everlasting covenant with you, even the sure mercies of David.
(Isa 55:10)	For as the rain comes down and the snow from the sky, and doesn’t return there, but waters the earth, and makes it grow and bud, and gives seed to the sower and bread to the eater;
(Isa 55:12)	For you shall go out with joy, and be led out with peace. The mountains and the hills will break out before you into singing; and all the trees of the fields will clap their hands.
(Rom 10:17)	So faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God.
(Rev 1:3)	Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of the prophecy, and keep the things that are written in it, for the time is at hand.
(Rom 1:16)	For I am not ashamed of the Good News of Christ, because it is the power of God for salvation for everyone who believes, for the Jew first, and also for the Greek.
(Jas 1:21)	Therefore, putting away all filthiness and overflowing of wickedness, receive with humility the implanted word, which is able to save your souls. [1:21 or, preserve your life.]
(2Pet 1:19)	We have the more sure word of prophecy; and you do well that you heed it, as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns, and the morning star arises in your hearts:
(Ps 19:7)	Yahweh’s law is perfect, restoring the soul. Yahweh’s covenant is sure, making wise the simple.
(Ps 19:8)	Yahweh’s precepts are right, rejoicing the heart. Yahweh’s commandment is pure, enlightening the eyes.
(Ps 19:11)	Moreover your servant is warned by them. In keeping them there is great reward.
(Prov 6:23)	For the commandment is a lamp, and the law is light. Reproofs of instruction are the way of life,
(2Tim 3:15)	From infancy, you have known the holy Scriptures which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus.
(Ps 119:105)	NUN Your word is a lamp to my feet, and a light for my path.
(Heb 4:12)	For the word of God is living and active, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and is able to discern the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
＊	LOVING THE WORD
(Ps 119:165)	Those who love your law have great peace. Nothing causes them to stumble.
(1Pet 2:2)	as newborn babies, long for the pure milk of the Word, that with it you may grow,
(Ps 112:1)	Praise Yah! [112:1 Psalm 112 is an acrostic poem, with each verse after the initial “Praise Yah!” starting with a letter of the alphabet (ordered from Alef to Tav).] Blessed is the man who fears Yahweh, who delights greatly in his commandments.
＊	TREMBLING AT THE WORD
(Prov 13:13)	Whoever despises instruction will pay for it, but he who respects a command will be rewarded.
(Isa 66:2)	For my hand has made all these things, and so all these things came to be,” says Yahweh: “but I will look to this man, even to he who is poor and of a contrite spirit, and who trembles at my word.
＊	11. MEDITATION
(Prov 14:22)	Don’t they go astray who plot evil? But love and faithfulness belong to those who plan good.
(Ps 37:31)	The law of his God is in his heart. None of his steps shall slide.
(Josh 1:8)	This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night, that you may observe to do according to all that is written in it; for then you shall make your way prosperous, and then you shall have good success.
(Deut 11:18)	Therefore you shall lay up these words of mine in your heart and in your soul. You shall bind them for a sign on your hand, and they shall be for frontlets between your eyes.
(Deut 11:21)	that your days and your children’s days may be multiplied in the land which Yahweh swore to your fathers to give them, as the days of the heavens above the earth.
(Ps 119:9)	BET How can a young man keep his way pure? By living according to your word.
(Isa 64:5)	You meet him who rejoices and does righteousness, those who remember you in your ways. Behold, you were angry, and we sinned. We have been in sin for a long time. Shall we be saved?
(Prov 4:26)	Make the path of your feet level. Let all of your ways be established.
(Ps 63:5)	My soul shall be satisfied as with the richest food. My mouth shall praise you with joyful lips,
(Ps 63:6)	when I remember you on my bed, and think about you in the night watches.
(Ps 103:17)	But Yahweh’s loving kindness is from everlasting to everlasting with those who fear him, his righteousness to children’s children,
(Ps 103:18)	to those who keep his covenant, to those who remember to obey his precepts.
(Ps 1:2)	but his delight is in Yahweh’s [1:2 “Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.] law. On his law he meditates day and night.
(Ps 1:3)	He will be like a tree planted by the streams of water, that produces its fruit in its season, whose leaf also does not wither. Whatever he does shall prosper.
＊	12. TO FASTING
(Joel 2:15)	Blow the trumpet in Zion! Sanctify a fast. Call a solemn assembly.
(Joel 2:18)	Then Yahweh was jealous for his land, And had pity on his people.
＊	FASTING IN SECRET
(Matt 6:17)	But you, when you fast, anoint your head, and wash your face;
(Matt 6:18)	so that you are not seen by men to be fasting, but by your Father who is in secret, and your Father, who sees in secret, will reward you.
＊	13. TO BAPTISM
(Mark 16:16)	He who believes and is baptized will be saved; but he who disbelieves will be condemned.
(Acts 2:38)	Peter said to them, “Repent, and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
(Gal 3:27)	For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.
(Acts 22:16)	Now why do you wait? Arise, be baptized, and wash away your sins, calling on the name of the Lord.’
(1Cor 12:13)	For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether bond or free; and were all given to drink into one Spirit.
(Col 2:12)	having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the working of God, who raised him from the dead.
(1Pet 3:20)	who before were disobedient, when God waited patiently in the days of Noah, while the ship was being built. In it, few, that is, eight souls, were saved through water.
(1Pet 3:21)	This is a symbol of baptism, which now saves you—not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
(Rom 6:3)	Or don’t you know that all we who were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death?
(Rom 6:4)	We were buried therefore with him through baptism into death, that just as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we also might walk in newness of life.
＊	14. TO THE LORD'S SUPPER
(1Cor 12:13)	For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether bond or free; and were all given to drink into one Spirit.
(1Cor 10:16)	The cup of blessing which we bless, isn’t it a sharing of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, isn’t it a sharing of the body of Christ?
(Matt 26:26)	As they were eating, Jesus took bread, gave thanks for [26:26 TR reads “blessed” instead of “gave thanks for”] it, and broke it. He gave to the disciples, and said, “Take, eat; this is my body.”
(Matt 26:28)	for this is my blood of the new covenant, which is poured out for many for the remission of sins.
(John 6:54)	He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day.
(John 6:57)	As the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father; so he who feeds on me, he will also live because of me.
(John 6:63)	It is the spirit who gives life. The flesh profits nothing. The words that I speak to you are spirit, and are life.
(Song 5:1)	[Lover] I have come into my garden, my sister, my bride. I have gathered my myrrh with my spice; I have eaten my honeycomb with my honey; I have drunk my wine with my milk. [Friends] Eat, friends! Drink, yes, drink abundantly, beloved.
(Song 2:3)	[Beloved] As the apple tree among the trees of the wood, so is my beloved among the sons. I sat down under his shadow with great delight, his fruit was sweet to my taste.
(Song 2:4)	He brought me to the banquet hall. His banner over me is love.
(Isa 25:6)	In this mountain, Yahweh of Armies will make all peoples a feast of choice meat, [25:6 literally, fat things] a feast of choice wines, of choice meat full of marrow, of well refined choice wines.
＊	15. TO GOOD DISCOURSE
(Prov 15:4)	A gentle tongue is a tree of life, but deceit in it crushes the spirit.
(Prov 15:23)	Joy comes to a man with the reply of his mouth. How good is a word at the right time!
(Mal 3:16)	Then those who feared Yahweh spoke one with another; and Yahweh listened, and heard, and a book of memory was written before him, for those who feared Yahweh, and who honored his name.
(Mal 3:17)	They shall be mine,” says Yahweh of Armies, “my own possession in the day that I make, and I will spare them, as a man spares his own son who serves him.
(Prov 13:2)	By the fruit of his lips, a man enjoys good things, but the unfaithful crave violence.
(Prov 16:24)	Pleasant words are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul, and health to the bones.
(Prov 18:20)	A man’s stomach is filled with the fruit of his mouth. With the harvest of his lips he is satisfied.
(Prov 18:21)	Death and life are in the power of the tongue; those who love it will eat its fruit.
(Prov 12:6)	The words of the wicked are about lying in wait for blood, but the speech of the upright rescues them.
(Prov 12:14)	A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth. The work of a man’s hands shall be rewarded to him.
(Prov 12:18)	There is one who speaks rashly like the piercing of a sword, but the tongue of the wise heals.
＊	THE GOVERNMENT OF THE TONGUE
(Prov 14:3)	The fool’s talk brings a rod to his back, but the lips of the wise protect them.
(Prov 21:23)	Whoever guards his mouth and his tongue keeps his soul from troubles.
(1Pet 3:10)	For, “He who would love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit.
(Prov 13:3)	He who guards his mouth guards his soul. One who opens wide his lips comes to ruin.
(Matt 12:37)	For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned.”
＊	16. TO WATCHFULNESS
(1Cor 10:12)	Therefore let him who thinks he stands be careful that he doesn’t fall.
(Prov 28:14)	Blessed is the man who always fears; but one who hardens his heart falls into trouble.
(Mark 13:35)	Watch therefore, for you don’t know when the lord of the house is coming, whether at evening, or at midnight, or when the rooster crows, or in the morning;
(Mark 13:36)	lest coming suddenly he might find you sleeping.
(Mark 13:37)	What I tell you, I tell all: Watch.”
(Rev 16:15)	“Behold, I come like a thief. Blessed is he who watches, and keeps his clothes, so that he doesn’t walk naked, and they see his shame.”
(Luke 12:37)	Blessed are those servants, whom the lord will find watching when he comes. Most certainly I tell you that he will dress himself, make them recline, and will come and serve them.
(Luke 12:38)	They will be blessed if he comes in the second or third watch, and finds them so.
＊	17. TO KEEPING GOOD COMPANY
(Prov 27:17)	Iron sharpens iron; so a man sharpens his friend’s countenance.
(Prov 13:20)	One who walks with wise men grows wise, but a companion of fools suffers harm.
＊	AVOIDING EVIL COMPANY
(Ps 1:1)	[BOOK 1] Blessed is the man who doesn’t walk in the counsel of the wicked, nor stand on the path of sinners, nor sit in the seat of scoffers;
(2Cor 6:17)	Therefore “‘Come out from among them, and be separate,’ says the Lord. ‘Touch no unclean thing. I will receive you. [6:17 Isaiah 52:11 ; Ezekiel 20:34,41 ]
＊	18. TO PERFORMING OATHS
(Ps 15:1)	A Psalm by David. Yahweh, who shall dwell in your sanctuary? Who shall live on your holy hill?
(Ps 15:4)	in whose eyes a vile man is despised, but who honors those who fear Yahweh; he who keeps an oath even when it hurts, and doesn’t change;
(Ps 24:4)	He who has clean hands and a pure heart; who has not lifted up his soul to falsehood, and has not sworn deceitfully.
(Ps 24:5)	He shall receive a blessing from Yahweh, righteousness from the God of his salvation.
＊	19. TO THE KEEPING OF THE SABBATH
(Exod 20:11)	for in six days Yahweh made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day; therefore Yahweh blessed the Sabbath day, and made it holy.
(Isa 58:13)	“If you turn away your foot from the Sabbath, from doing your pleasure on my holy day; and call the Sabbath a delight, and the holy of Yahweh honorable; and honor it, not doing your own ways, nor finding your own pleasure, nor speaking your own words,
(Isa 58:14)	then you will delight yourself in Yahweh, and I will make you to ride on the high places of the earth, and I will feed you with the heritage of Jacob your father;” for Yahweh’s mouth has spoken it.
(Isa 56:2)	Blessed is the man who does this, and the son of man who holds it fast; who keeps the Sabbath without profaning it and keeps his hand from doing any evil.”
(Isa 56:6)	Also the foreigners who join themselves to Yahweh to serve him, and to love Yahweh’s name, to be his servants, everyone who keeps the Sabbath from profaning it, and holds fast my covenant,
(Isa 56:7)	I will bring these to my holy mountain, and make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar; for my house will be called a house of prayer for all peoples.”
(Mark 2:27)	He said to them, “The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath.
(Ps 118:24)	This is the day that Yahweh has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it!
(Acts 20:7)	On the first day of the week, when the disciples were gathered together to break bread, Paul talked with them, intending to depart on the next day, and continued his speech until midnight.
(Ezek 20:20)	Make my Sabbaths holy. They shall be a sign between me and you, that you may know that I am Yahweh your God.’
(John 20:19)	When therefore it was evening on that day, the first day of the week, and when the doors were locked where the disciples were assembled, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the middle, and said to them, “Peace be to you.”
(Rev 1:10)	I was in the Spirit on the Lord’s day, and I heard behind me a loud voice, like a trumpet
(Rev 1:11)	saying, [1:11 TR adds “I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last.”]“What you see, write in a book and send to the seven assemblies: [1:11 TR adds “which are in Asia”] to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, and to Laodicea.”
(Jer 17:24)	It will happen, if you diligently listen to me,” says Yahweh, “to bring in no burden through the gates of this city on the Sabbath day, but to make the Sabbath day holy, to do no work therein;
(Jer 17:25)	then there will enter in by the gates of this city kings and princes sitting on David’s throne, riding in chariots and on horses, they, and their princes, the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem; and this city will remain forever.
＊	CHAPTER 2
＊	IN THE PERFORMANCE OF DUTY TOWARD MEN
＊	1. TO OBEDIENCE TO PARENTS
(Eph 6:1)	Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.
(Eph 6:3)	“that it may be well with you, and you may live long on the earth.” [6:3 Deuteronomy 5:16 ]
(Prov 1:8)	My son, listen to your father’s instruction, and don’t forsake your mother’s teaching:
(Prov 1:9)	for they will be a garland to grace your head, and chains around your neck.
(1Tim 5:4)	But if any widow has children or grandchildren, let them learn first to show piety toward their own family and to repay their parents, for this is [5:4 TR adds “good and”] acceptable in the sight of God.
(Col 3:20)	Children, obey your parents in all things, for this pleases the Lord.
(Prov 6:20)	My son, keep your father’s commandment, and don’t forsake your mother’s teaching.
(Prov 6:22)	When you walk, it will lead you. When you sleep, it will watch over you. When you awake, it will talk with you.
(Jer 35:18)	Jeremiah said to the house of the Rechabites, “Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, says: ‘Because you have obeyed the commandment of Jonadab your father, and kept all his precepts, and done according to all that he commanded you;’
(Jer 35:19)	therefore Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, says: ‘Jonadab the son of Rechab will not lack a man to stand before me forever.’”
＊	2. TO GOOD EDUCATION
(Gen 18:19)	For I have known him, to the end that he may command his children and his household after him, that they may keep the way of Yahweh, to do righteousness and justice; to the end that Yahweh may bring on Abraham that which he has spoken of him.”
(Prov 22:6)	Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it.
(Deut 11:19)	You shall teach them to your children, talking of them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, and when you rise up.
(Deut 11:21)	that your days and your children’s days may be multiplied in the land which Yahweh swore to your fathers to give them, as the days of the heavens above the earth.
＊	CORRECTION OF CHILDREN
(Prov 22:15)	Folly is bound up in the heart of a child: the rod of discipline drives it far from him.
(Prov 23:13)	Don’t withhold correction from a child. If you punish him with the rod, he will not die.
(Prov 23:14)	Punish him with the rod, and save his soul from Sheol. [23:14 Sheol is the place of the dead.]
(Prov 29:15)	The rod of correction gives wisdom, but a child left to himself causes shame to his mother.
(Prov 29:17)	Correct your son, and he will give you peace; yes, he will bring delight to your soul.
＊	3. TO A GOOD WIFE
(Prov 14:1)	Every wise woman builds her house, but the foolish one tears it down with her own hands.
(Prov 11:16)	A gracious woman obtains honor, but violent men obtain riches.
(Prov 12:4)	A worthy woman is the crown of her husband, but a disgraceful wife is as rottenness in his bones.
(Prov 31:10)	[ 31:10 Proverbs 31:10-31 form an acrostic, with each verse starting with each letter of the Hebrew alphabet, in order.]Who can find a worthy woman? For her price is far above rubies.
(Prov 31:25)	Strength and dignity are her clothing. She laughs at the time to come.
(Prov 31:28)	Her children rise up and call her blessed. Her husband also praises her:
(Prov 31:30)	Charm is deceitful, and beauty is vain; but a woman who fears Yahweh, she shall be praised.
(Prov 31:31)	Give her of the fruit of her hands! Let her works praise her in the gates!
＊	4. TO FAITHFUL SERVANTS
(Prov 27:18)	Whoever tends the fig tree shall eat its fruit. He who looks after his master shall be honored.
(Prov 17:2)	A servant who deals wisely will rule over a son who causes shame, and shall have a part in the inheritance among the brothers.
(Prov 14:35)	The king’s favor is toward a servant who deals wisely, but his wrath is toward one who causes shame.
(Col 3:22)	Servants, obey in all things those who are your masters according to the flesh, not just when they are looking, as men pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing God.
(Col 3:24)	knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of the inheritance; for you serve the Lord Christ.
(Eph 6:5)	Servants, be obedient to those who according to the flesh are your masters, with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as to Christ,
(Eph 6:8)	knowing that whatever good thing each one does, he will receive the same good again from the Lord, whether he is bound or free.
＊	5. TO GOOD KINGS AND MAGISTRATES
(Prov 16:12)	It is an abomination for kings to do wrong, for the throne is established by righteousness.
(Prov 20:28)	Love and faithfulness keep the king safe. His throne is sustained by love.
(Prov 29:14)	The king who fairly judges the poor, his throne shall be established forever.
(Isa 28:5)	In that day, Yahweh of Armies will become a crown of glory and a diadem of beauty to the residue of his people,
(Isa 28:6)	and a spirit of justice to him who sits in judgment, and strength to those who turn back the battle at the gate.
(Deut 17:18)	It shall be, when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, that he shall write himself a copy of this law in a book, out of that which is before the Levitical priests.
(Deut 17:20)	that his heart not be lifted up above his brothers, and that he not turn away from the commandment to the right hand, or to the left, to the end that he may prolong his days in his kingdom, he and his children, in the middle of Israel.
＊	6. TO OBEDIENT SUBJECTS
(1Pet 2:13)	Therefore subject yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord’s sake: whether to the king, as supreme;
(1Pet 2:15)	For this is the will of God, that by well-doing you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish men:
(Eccl 8:5)	Whoever keeps the commandment shall not come to harm, and his wise heart will know the time and procedure.
＊	7. TO FAITHFUL MINISTERS
(Isa 49:4)	But I said, “I have labored in vain. I have spent my strength in vain for nothing; yet surely the justice due to me is with Yahweh, and my reward with my God.”
(Isa 32:20)	Blessed are you who sow beside all waters, who send out the feet of the ox and the donkey.
(Jer 31:14)	I will satiate the soul of the priests with fatness, and my people will be satisfied with my goodness,” says Yahweh.
(1Pet 5:1)	Therefore I exhort the elders among you, as a fellow elder, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and who will also share in the glory that will be revealed.
(1Pet 5:4)	When the chief Shepherd is revealed, you will receive the crown of glory that doesn’t fade away.
(Rev 2:1)	“To the angel of the assembly in Ephesus write: “He who holds the seven stars in his right hand, he who walks among the seven golden lamp stands says these things:
(1Tim 4:16)	Pay attention to yourself and to your teaching. Continue in these things, for in doing this you will save both yourself and those who hear you.
(Dan 12:3)	Those who are wise will shine as the brightness of the expanse. Those who turn many to righteousness will shine as the stars forever and ever.
(Matt 28:20)	teaching them to observe all things that I commanded you. Behold, I am with you always, even to the end of the age.” Amen.
(John 4:36)	He who reaps receives wages and gathers fruit to eternal life; that both he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together.
(Luke 12:42)	The Lord said, “Who then is the faithful and wise steward, whom his lord will set over his household, to give them their portion of food at the right times?
(Luke 12:44)	Truly I tell you, that he will set him over all that he has.
(Ps 132:16)	I will also clothe her priests with salvation. Her saints will shout aloud for joy.
(Jer 20:11)	But Yahweh is with me as an awesome mighty one. Therefore my persecutors will stumble, and they won’t prevail. They will be utterly disappointed, because they have not dealt wisely, even with an everlasting dishonor which will never be forgotten.
(Ezek 3:8)	Behold, I have made your face hard against their faces, and your forehead hard against their foreheads.
(Ezek 3:9)	I have made your forehead as a diamond, harder than flint. Don’t be afraid of them, neither be dismayed at their looks, though they are a rebellious house.”
(Jer 15:19)	Therefore Yahweh says, “If you return, then I will bring you again, that you may stand before me; and if you take out the precious from the vile, you will be as my mouth. They will return to you, but you will not return to them.
(Jer 15:21)	“I will deliver you out of the hand of the wicked, and I will redeem you out of the hand of the terrible.”
(Luke 21:15)	for I will give you a mouth and wisdom which all your adversaries will not be able to withstand or to contradict.
(Deut 10:9)	Therefore Levi has no portion nor inheritance with his brothers; Yahweh is his inheritance, according as Yahweh your God spoke to him.)
(Deut 33:11)	Yahweh, bless his skills. Accept the work of his hands. Strike through the hips of those who rise up against him, of those who hate him, that they not rise again.”
(Matt 10:19)	But when they deliver you up, don’t be anxious how or what you will say, for it will be given you in that hour what you will say.
(Matt 10:20)	For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father who speaks in you.
(Jer 1:7)	But Yahweh said to me, “Don’t say, ‘I am a child;’ for you must go to whomever I send you, and you must say whatever I command you.
(Jer 1:8)	Don’t be afraid because of them, for I am with you to rescue you,” says Yahweh.
(Jer 1:19)	They will fight against you, but they will not prevail against you; for I am with you”, says Yahweh, “to rescue you.”
＊	8. TO THEM THAT RECEIVE AND HEARKEN TO MINISTERS
(Luke 10:16)	Whoever listens to you listens to me, and whoever rejects you rejects me. Whoever rejects me rejects him who sent me.”
(2Chr 20:20)	They rose early in the morning, and went out into the wilderness of Tekoa. As they went out, Jehoshaphat stood and said, “Listen to me, Judah, and you inhabitants of Jerusalem! Believe in Yahweh your God, so you will be established! Believe his prophets, so you will prosper.”
(John 13:20)	Most certainly I tell you, he who receives whomever I send, receives me; and he who receives me, receives him who sent me.”
(Matt 10:40)	He who receives you receives me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me.
(Matt 10:41)	He who receives a prophet in the name of a prophet will receive a prophet’s reward. He who receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man will receive a righteous man’s reward.
＊	9. TO LOVE AND UNITY
(John 13:35)	By this everyone will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another.”
(1John 2:10)	He who loves his brother remains in the light, and there is no occasion for stumbling in him.
(2Cor 13:11)	Finally, brothers, rejoice! Be perfected. Be comforted. Be of the same mind. Live in peace, and the God of love and peace will be with you.
(Ps 133:1)	A Song of Ascents. By David. See how good and how pleasant it is for brothers to live together in unity!
(Ps 133:3)	like the dew of Hermon, that comes down on the hills of Zion; for there Yahweh gives the blessing, even life forever more.
＊	TO THE PEACEMAKERS
(Prov 12:20)	Deceit is in the heart of those who plot evil, but joy comes to the promoters of peace.
(Matt 5:9)	Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called children of God.
(1Pet 3:10)	For, “He who would love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit.
(1Pet 3:11)	Let him turn away from evil and do good. Let him seek peace and pursue it.
＊	LOVE TO GOD'S PEOPLE
(Ps 122:6)	Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. Those who love you will prosper.
(Ps 15:1)	A Psalm by David. Yahweh, who shall dwell in your sanctuary? Who shall live on your holy hill?
(Ps 15:4)	in whose eyes a vile man is despised, but who honors those who fear Yahweh; he who keeps an oath even when it hurts, and doesn’t change;
(1John 4:12)	No one has seen God at any time. If we love one another, God remains in us, and his love has been perfected in us.
(Num 24:9)	He couched, he lay down as a lion, as a lioness; who shall rouse him up? Everyone who blesses you is blessed. Everyone who curses you is cursed.”
(Heb 6:10)	For God is not unrighteous, so as to forget your work and the labor of love which you showed toward his name, in that you served the saints, and still do serve them.
(1John 3:14)	We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brothers. He who doesn’t love his brother remains in death.
(1John 3:18)	My little children, let’s not love in word only, or with the tongue only, but in deed and truth.
(1John 3:19)	And by this we know that we are of the truth, and persuade our hearts before him,
＊	10. TO THE CHARITABLE, THE MERCIFUL, AND THE LIBERAL TO GOD'S MINISTERS
(Prov 14:21)	He who despises his neighbor sins, but he who has pity on the poor is blessed.
(Prov 19:17)	He who has pity on the poor lends to Yahweh; he will reward him.
(Ps 37:25)	I have been young, and now am old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his children begging for bread.
(Ps 37:26)	All day long he deals graciously, and lends. His offspring is blessed.
(Prov 11:24)	There is one who scatters, and increases yet more. There is one who withholds more than is appropriate, but gains poverty.
(Prov 11:25)	The liberal soul shall be made fat. He who waters shall be watered also himself.
(Prov 11:27)	He who diligently seeks good seeks favor, but he who searches after evil, it shall come to him.
(Ps 112:5)	It is well with the man who deals graciously and lends. He will maintain his cause in judgment.
(Ps 112:6)	For he will never be shaken. The righteous will be remembered forever.
(Ps 112:9)	He has dispersed, he has given to the poor. His righteousness endures forever. His horn will be exalted with honor.
(Ps 41:1)	For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. Blessed is he who considers the poor. Yahweh will deliver him in the day of evil.
(Ps 41:3)	Yahweh will sustain him on his sickbed, and restore him from his bed of illness.
(Matt 10:42)	Whoever gives one of these little ones just a cup of cold water to drink in the name of a disciple, most certainly I tell you he will in no way lose his reward.”
(Eccl 11:1)	Cast your bread on the waters; for you shall find it after many days.
(Eccl 11:2)	Give a portion to seven, yes, even to eight; for you don’t know what evil will be on the earth.
(Isa 58:7)	Isn’t it to distribute your bread to the hungry, and that you bring the poor who are cast out to your house? When you see the naked, that you cover him; and that you not hide yourself from your own flesh?
(Isa 58:8)	Then your light will break out as the morning, and your healing will appear quickly; then your righteousness shall go before you, and Yahweh’s glory will be your rear guard.
(Isa 58:10)	and if you pour out your soul to the hungry, and satisfy the afflicted soul, then your light will rise in darkness, and your obscurity will be as the noonday;
(Isa 58:11)	and Yahweh will guide you continually, satisfy your soul in dry places, and make your bones strong. You will be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water whose waters don’t fail.
(Isa 32:8)	But the noble devises noble things; and he will continue in noble things.
(Prov 22:9)	He who has a generous eye will be blessed; for he shares his food with the poor.
(Prov 28:8)	He who increases his wealth by excessive interest gathers it for one who has pity on the poor.
(Prov 28:27)	One who gives to the poor has no lack; but one who closes his eyes will have many curses.
(Luke 16:9)	I tell you, make for yourselves friends by means of unrighteous mammon, so that when you fail, they may receive you into the eternal tents.
(Matt 25:34)	Then the King will tell those on his right hand, ‘Come, blessed of my Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world;
(Matt 25:36)	I was naked, and you clothed me. I was sick, and you visited me. I was in prison, and you came to me.’
(Matt 25:40)	“The King will answer them, ‘Most certainly I tell you, because you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, [25:40 The word for “brothers” here may be also correctly translated “brothers and sisters” or “siblings.”] you did it to me.’
(Luke 11:41)	But give for gifts to the needy those things which are within, and behold, all things will be clean to you.
(Luke 12:33)	Sell that which you have, and give gifts to the needy. Make for yourselves purses which don’t grow old, a treasure in the heavens that doesn’t fail, where no thief approaches, neither moth destroys.
(Luke 14:13)	But when you make a feast, ask the poor, the maimed, the lame, or the blind;
(Luke 14:14)	and you will be blessed, because they don’t have the resources to repay you. For you will be repaid in the resurrection of the righteous.”
(Luke 6:38)	“Give, and it will be given to you: good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over, will be given to you. [6:38 literally, into your bosom.] For with the same measure you measure it will be measured back to you.”
(2Cor 9:8)	And God is able to make all grace abound to you, that you, always having all sufficiency in everything, may abound to every good work.
(2Cor 9:10)	Now may he who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food, supply and multiply your seed for sowing, and increase the fruits of your righteousness,
(Heb 13:16)	But don’t forget to be doing good and sharing, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
(Mark 10:21)	Jesus looking at him loved him, and said to him, “One thing you lack. Go, sell whatever you have, and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me, taking up the cross.”
(2Cor 8:12)	For if the readiness is there, it is acceptable according to what you have, not according to what you don’t have.
(2Cor 9:6)	Remember this: he who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly. He who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully.
(2Cor 9:7)	Let each man give according as he has determined in his heart, not grudgingly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver.
(Deut 15:10)	You shall surely give, and your heart shall not be grieved when you give to him, because it is for this thing Yahweh your God will bless you in all your work and in all that you put your hand to.
(1Tim 6:17)	Charge those who are rich in this present world that they not be arrogant, nor have their hope set on the uncertainty of riches, but on the living God, who richly provides us with everything to enjoy;
(1Tim 6:19)	laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come, that they may lay hold of eternal life.
＊	TO ALMS IN SECRET
(Matt 6:3)	But when you do merciful deeds, don’t let your left hand know what your right hand does,
(Matt 6:4)	so that your merciful deeds may be in secret, then your Father who sees in secret will reward you openly.
＊	TO THE SUPPORTING GOD'S MINISTERS AND WORSHIP
(Prov 3:9)	Honor Yahweh with your substance, with the first fruits of all your increase:
(Prov 3:10)	so your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine.
(Deut 14:29)	The Levite, because he has no portion nor inheritance with you, as well as the foreigner living among you, the fatherless, and the widow who are within your gates shall come, and shall eat and be satisfied; that Yahweh your God may bless you in all the work of your hand which you do.
(Mal 3:10)	Bring the whole tithe into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house, and test me now in this,” says Yahweh of Armies, “if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there will not be room enough for.
(Mal 3:12)	“All nations shall call you blessed, for you will be a delightful land,” says Yahweh of Armies.
(Gal 6:6)	But let him who is taught in the word share all good things with him who teaches.
(Gal 6:8)	For he who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption. But he who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life.
(Phil 4:17)	Not that I seek for the gift, but I seek for the fruit that increases to your account.
(Phil 4:19)	My God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
＊	TO THE MERCIFUL
(Prov 11:17)	The merciful man does good to his own soul, but he who is cruel troubles his own flesh.
(Matt 5:7)	Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy.
(Ps 18:25)	With the merciful you will show yourself merciful. With the perfect man, you will show yourself perfect.
(Prov 3:3)	Don’t let kindness and truth forsake you. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your heart.
(Prov 3:4)	So you will find favor, and good understanding in the sight of God and man.
(Deut 24:12)	If he is a poor man, you shall not sleep with his pledge.
(Deut 24:13)	You shall surely restore to him the pledge when the sun goes down, that he may sleep in his garment and bless you. It shall be righteousness to you before Yahweh your God.
＊	11. TO THE GIVING AND RECEIVING OF REPROOFS
(Prov 24:25)	but it will go well with those who convict the guilty, and a rich blessing will come on them.
(Prov 28:23)	One who rebukes a man will afterward find more favor than one who flatters with the tongue.
(Prov 13:18)	Poverty and shame come to him who refuses discipline, but he who heeds correction shall be honored.
(Prov 25:12)	As an earring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, so is a wise reprover to an obedient ear.
(Prov 15:31)	The ear that listens to reproof lives, and will be at home among the wise.
(Prov 15:32)	He who refuses correction despises his own soul, but he who listens to reproof gets understanding.
＊	12. TO FORGIVING INJURIES
(Prov 20:22)	Don’t say, “I will pay back evil.” Wait for Yahweh, and he will save you.
(Luke 6:35)	But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting nothing back; and your reward will be great, and you will be children of the Most High; for he is kind toward the unthankful and evil.
(Luke 6:37)	Don’t judge, and you won’t be judged. Don’t condemn, and you won’t be condemned. Set free, and you will be set free.
(Matt 5:44)	But I tell you, love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who mistreat you and persecute you,
(Matt 5:45)	that you may be children of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the just and the unjust.
(Matt 6:14)	“For if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you.
(Mark 11:25)	Whenever you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything against anyone; so that your Father, who is in heaven, may also forgive you your transgressions.
(1Pet 3:9)	not rendering evil for evil, or insult for insult; but instead blessing, knowing that you were called to this, that you may inherit a blessing.
(Prov 25:21)	If your enemy is hungry, give him food to eat. If he is thirsty, give him water to drink;
(Prov 25:22)	for you will heap coals of fire on his head, and Yahweh will reward you.
(Rom 12:20)	Therefore “If your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him a drink; for in doing so, you will heap coals of fire on his head.” [12:20 Proverbs 25:21-22 ]
＊	13. TO CHASTITY AND PURITY
(Matt 5:8)	Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God.
(Ezek 18:5)	“But if a man is just, and does that which is lawful and right,
(Ezek 18:6)	and has not eaten on the mountains, hasn’t lifted up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, hasn’t defiled his neighbor’s wife, hasn’t come near a woman in her impurity,
(Ezek 18:9)	has walked in my statutes, and has kept my ordinances, to deal truly; he is just, he shall surely live,” says the Lord Yahweh.
(Titus 1:15)	To the pure, all things are pure; but to those who are defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure; but both their mind and their conscience are defiled.
(Ps 18:26)	With the pure, you will show yourself pure. With the crooked you will show yourself shrewd.
(Ps 73:1)	[BOOK 3] A Psalm by Asaph. Surely God [73:1 The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).] is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart.
(Ps 24:3)	Who may ascend to Yahweh’s hill? Who may stand in his holy place?
(Ps 24:4)	He who has clean hands and a pure heart; who has not lifted up his soul to falsehood, and has not sworn deceitfully.
(2Tim 2:21)	If anyone therefore purges himself from these, he will be a vessel for honor, sanctified, and suitable for the master’s use, prepared for every good work.
＊	14. TO DILIGENCE
(Prov 10:4)	He becomes poor who works with a lazy hand, but the hand of the diligent brings wealth.
(Prov 14:23)	In all hard work there is profit, but the talk of the lips leads only to poverty.
(Prov 13:4)	The soul of the sluggard desires, and has nothing, but the desire of the diligent shall be fully satisfied.
(Prov 13:11)	Wealth gained dishonestly dwindles away, but he who gathers by hand makes it grow.
(Prov 21:5)	The plans of the diligent surely lead to profit; and everyone who is hasty surely rushes to poverty.
(Prov 22:29)	Do you see a man skilled in his work? He will serve kings. He won’t serve obscure men.
(Prov 28:19)	One who works his land will have an abundance of food; but one who chases fantasies will have his fill of poverty.
(Prov 12:11)	He who tills his land shall have plenty of bread, but he who chases fantasies is void of understanding.
(Prov 12:24)	The hands of the diligent ones shall rule, but laziness ends in slave labor.
(Prov 12:27)	The slothful man doesn’t roast his game, but the possessions of diligent men are prized.
＊	TO IMPROVING OUR TALENTS
(Matt 25:23)	“His lord said to him, ‘Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a few things, I will set you over many things. Enter into the joy of your lord.’
(Matt 25:29)	For to everyone who has will be given, and he will have abundance, but from him who doesn’t have, even that which he has will be taken away.
(Matt 13:12)	For whoever has, to him will be given, and he will have abundance, but whoever doesn’t have, from him will be taken away even that which he has.
＊	MODERATION IN SLEEP
(Prov 20:13)	Don’t love sleep, lest you come to poverty. Open your eyes, and you shall be satisfied with bread.
＊	15. TO THE JUST AND HONEST
(Prov 15:27)	He who is greedy for gain troubles his own house, but he who hates bribes will live.
(Prov 11:1)	A false balance is an abomination to Yahweh, but accurate weights are his delight.
(Prov 12:21)	No mischief shall happen to the righteous, but the wicked shall be filled with evil.
(Prov 28:20)	A faithful man is rich with blessings; but one who is eager to be rich will not go unpunished.
(Deut 16:20)	You shall follow that which is altogether just, that you may live and inherit the land which Yahweh your God gives you.
(Isa 33:15)	He who walks righteously and speaks blamelessly, he who despises the gain of oppressions, who gestures with his hands, refusing to take a bribe, who stops his ears from hearing of blood, and shuts his eyes from looking at evil—
(Isa 33:16)	he will dwell on high. His place of defense will be the fortress of rocks. His bread will be supplied. His waters will be sure.
(Prov 16:8)	Better is a little with righteousness, than great revenues with injustice.
(Prov 21:3)	To do righteousness and justice is more acceptable to Yahweh than sacrifice.
(Ps 15:5)	he who doesn’t lend out his money for usury, nor take a bribe against the innocent. He who does these things shall never be shaken.
(Deut 25:15)	You shall have a perfect and just weight. You shall have a perfect and just measure, that your days may be long in the land which Yahweh your God gives you.
(Ezek 18:5)	“But if a man is just, and does that which is lawful and right,
(Ezek 18:7)	and has not wronged any, but has restored to the debtor his pledge, has taken nothing by robbery, has given his bread to the hungry, and has covered the naked with a garment;
(Ezek 18:9)	has walked in my statutes, and has kept my ordinances, to deal truly; he is just, he shall surely live,” says the Lord Yahweh.
(Isa 56:1)	Yahweh says, “Maintain justice and do what is right, for my salvation is near and my righteousness will soon be revealed.
(Isa 56:2)	Blessed is the man who does this, and the son of man who holds it fast; who keeps the Sabbath without profaning it and keeps his hand from doing any evil.”
＊	16. TO TRUTH
(1Pet 3:10)	For, “He who would love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit.
(Ps 34:12)	Who is someone who desires life, and loves many days, that he may see good?
(Ps 34:13)	Keep your tongue from evil, and your lips from speaking lies.
(Prov 12:19)	Truth’s lips will be established forever, but a lying tongue is only momentary.
(Prov 12:22)	Lying lips are an abomination to Yahweh, but those who do the truth are his delight.
(Ps 15:1)	A Psalm by David. Yahweh, who shall dwell in your sanctuary? Who shall live on your holy hill?
(Ps 15:3)	he who doesn’t slander with his tongue, nor does evil to his friend, nor casts slurs against his fellow man;
＊	17. TO CANDOR
(Matt 7:1)	“Don’t judge, so that you won’t be judged.
(Matt 7:2)	For with whatever judgment you judge, you will be judged; and with whatever measure you measure, it will be measured to you.
(Ps 15:1)	A Psalm by David. Yahweh, who shall dwell in your sanctuary? Who shall live on your holy hill?
(Ps 15:3)	he who doesn’t slander with his tongue, nor does evil to his friend, nor casts slurs against his fellow man;
＊	18. TO CONTENTMENT AND MORTIFICATION
＊	CONTENTMENT
(1Tim 6:6)	But godliness with contentment is great gain.
(Prov 14:30)	The life of the body is a heart at peace, but envy rots the bones.
(Prov 17:22)	A cheerful heart makes good medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones.
(Prov 15:15)	All the days of the afflicted are wretched, but one who has a cheerful heart enjoys a continual feast.
(Heb 13:5)	Be free from the love of money, content with such things as you have, for he has said, “I will in no way leave you, neither will I in any way forsake you.” [13:5 Deuteronomy 31:6 ]
(Prov 23:17)	Don’t let your heart envy sinners, but rather fear Yahweh all day long.
(Prov 23:18)	Indeed surely there is a future hope, and your hope will not be cut off.
＊	MORTIFICATION OF SIN
(Rom 8:13)	For if you live after the flesh, you must die; but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live.
(Matt 5:29)	If your right eye causes you to stumble, pluck it out and throw it away from you. For it is more profitable for you that one of your members should perish, than for your whole body to be cast into Gehenna. [5:29 or, Hell]
(Matt 5:30)	If your right hand causes you to stumble, cut it off, and throw it away from you. For it is more profitable for you that one of your members should perish, than for your whole body to be cast into Gehenna. [5:30 or, Hell]
＊	TO THE SPIRITUALLY-MINDED
(Rom 8:6)	For the mind of the flesh is death, but the mind of the Spirit is life and peace;
＊	CHAPTER 3
＊	IN THE CULTIVATION OF CHRISTIAN CHARACTER
＊	1. TO THE MEEK, HUMBLE, CONTRITE
＊	THE MEEK
(Zeph 2:3)	Seek Yahweh, all you humble of the land, who have kept his ordinances. Seek righteousness. Seek humility. It may be that you will be hidden in the day of Yahweh’s anger.
(Prov 15:1)	A gentle answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger.
(Prov 15:18)	A wrathful man stirs up contention, but one who is slow to anger appeases strife.
(1Pet 3:3)	Let your beauty be not just the outward adorning of braiding the hair, and of wearing jewels of gold, or of putting on fine clothing;
(1Pet 3:4)	but in the hidden person of the heart, in the incorruptible adornment of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is very precious in the sight of God.
(Prov 14:29)	He who is slow to anger has great understanding, but he who has a quick temper displays folly.
(Matt 5:5)	Blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth. [5:5 or, land.] [5:5 Psalm 37:11 ]
(Ps 25:9)	He will guide the humble in justice. He will teach the humble his way.
(Ps 147:6)	Yahweh upholds the humble. He brings the wicked down to the ground.
(Ps 149:4)	For Yahweh takes pleasure in his people. He crowns the humble with salvation.
(Ps 37:11)	But the humble shall inherit the land, and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace.
(Isa 11:4)	but he will judge the poor with righteousness, and decide with equity for the humble of the earth. He will strike the earth with the rod of his mouth; and with the breath of his lips he will kill the wicked.
(Ps 22:26)	The humble shall eat and be satisfied. They shall praise Yahweh who seek after him. Let your hearts live forever.
(Isa 29:19)	The humble also will increase their joy in Yahweh, and the poor among men will rejoice in the Holy One of Israel.
(Prov 20:3)	It is an honor for a man to keep aloof from strife, but every fool will be quarreling.
(Prov 19:11)	The discretion of a man makes him slow to anger. It is his glory to overlook an offense.
(Prov 16:32)	One who is slow to anger is better than the mighty; one who rules his spirit, than he who takes a city.
＊	TO THE HUMBLE
(Job 22:29)	When they cast down, you will say, ‘be lifted up.’ He will save the humble person.
(Ps 9:12)	For he who avenges blood remembers them. He doesn’t forget the cry of the afflicted.
(Ps 10:17)	Yahweh, you have heard the desire of the humble. You will prepare their heart. You will cause your ear to hear,
(Prov 3:34)	Surely he mocks the mockers, but he gives grace to the humble.
(Prov 11:2)	When pride comes, then comes shame, but with humility comes wisdom.
(Jas 4:6)	But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, “God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble.” [4:6 Proverbs 3:34 ]
(1Pet 5:5)	Likewise, you younger ones, be subject to the elder. Yes, all of you clothe yourselves with humility, to subject yourselves to one another; for “God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble.” [5:5 Proverbs 3:34 ]
(Ps 138:6)	For though Yahweh is high, yet he looks after the lowly; but he knows the proud from afar.
(Prov 22:4)	The result of humility and the fear of Yahweh is wealth, honor, and life.
(Prov 29:23)	A man’s pride brings him low, but one of lowly spirit gains honor.
(Prov 15:33)	The fear of Yahweh teaches wisdom. Before honor is humility.
(Prov 18:12)	Before destruction the heart of man is proud, but before honor is humility.
(Prov 16:19)	It is better to be of a lowly spirit with the poor, than to divide the plunder with the proud.
(Matt 18:4)	Whoever therefore humbles himself as this little child is the greatest in the Kingdom of Heaven.
(Matt 23:12)	Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
(Luke 18:14)	I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other; for everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but he who humbles himself will be exalted.”
＊	THE CONTRITE AND MOURNERS
(Ps 34:18)	Yahweh is near to those who have a broken heart, and saves those who have a crushed spirit.
(Ps 147:3)	He heals the broken in heart, and binds up their wounds.
(Eccl 7:3)	Sorrow is better than laughter; for by the sadness of the face the heart is made good.
(Isa 66:2)	For my hand has made all these things, and so all these things came to be,” says Yahweh: “but I will look to this man, even to he who is poor and of a contrite spirit, and who trembles at my word.
(Ps 51:17)	The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit. O God, you will not despise a broken and contrite heart.
(Matt 5:3)	“Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven. [5:3 Isaiah 57:15 ; 66:2 ]
(Matt 5:4)	Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. [5:4 Isaiah 61:2 ; 66:10,13 ]
(Isa 57:15)	For the high and lofty One who inhabits eternity, whose name is Holy, says: “I dwell in the high and holy place, with him also who is of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite.
＊	2. TO THEM THAT SUFFER FOR RIGHTEOUSNESS' SAKE
(Matt 10:39)	He who seeks his life will lose it; and he who loses his life for my sake will find it.
(2Tim 2:12)	If we endure, we will also reign with him. If we deny him, he also will deny us.
(Matt 19:29)	Everyone who has left houses, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name’s sake, will receive one hundred times, and will inherit eternal life.
(Matt 5:10)	Blessed are those who have been persecuted for righteousness’ sake, for theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven.
(Matt 5:12)	Rejoice, and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For that is how they persecuted the prophets who were before you.
(Rom 8:17)	and if children, then heirs: heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified with him.
(Rom 8:35)	Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Could oppression, or anguish, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword?
(Rom 8:37)	No, in all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us.
(2Cor 4:9)	pursued, yet not forsaken; struck down, yet not destroyed;
(1Pet 3:14)	But even if you should suffer for righteousness’ sake, you are blessed. “Don’t fear what they fear, neither be troubled.” [3:14 Isaiah 8:12 ]
(1Pet 3:17)	For it is better, if it is God’s will, that you suffer for doing well than for doing evil.
(Heb 10:34)	For you both had compassion on me in my chains, and joyfully accepted the plundering of your possessions, knowing that you have for yourselves a better possession and an enduring one in the heavens.
(Heb 10:35)	Therefore don’t throw away your boldness, which has a great reward.
(1Pet 4:12)	Beloved, don’t be astonished at the fiery trial which has come upon you to test you, as though a strange thing happened to you.
(1Pet 4:14)	If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed; because the Spirit of glory and of God rests on you. On their part he is blasphemed, but on your part he is glorified.
＊	TO THEM THAT ARE EXCOMMUNICATED UNJUSTLY
(Isa 66:5)	Hear Yahweh’s word, you who tremble at his word: “Your brothers who hate you, who cast you out for my name’s sake, have said, ‘Let Yahweh be glorified, that we may see your joy;’ but it is those who shall be disappointed.
(Luke 6:22)	Blessed are you when men hate you, and when they exclude and mock you, and throw out your name as evil, for the Son of Man’s sake.
(Luke 6:23)	Rejoice in that day, and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven, for their fathers did the same thing to the prophets.
＊	3. TO PATIENCE AND SUBMISSION
(Heb 6:12)	that you won’t be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and perseverance inherited the promises.
(Lam 3:26)	It is good that a man should hope and quietly wait for the salvation of Yahweh.
(Lam 3:29)	Let him put his mouth in the dust, if it is so that there may be hope.
(Lam 3:31)	For the Lord will not cast off forever.
(Prov 10:28)	The prospect of the righteous is joy, but the hope of the wicked will perish.
(Rom 5:3)	Not only this, but we also rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces perseverance;
(Rom 5:4)	and perseverance, proven character; and proven character, hope:
(Jas 1:2)	Count it all joy, my brothers, [1:2 The word for “brothers” here and where context allows may also be correctly translated “brothers and sisters” or “siblings.”] when you fall into various temptations,
(Jas 1:4)	Let endurance have its perfect work, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing.
(Jas 1:12)	Blessed is a person who endures temptation, for when he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life, which the Lord promised to those who love him.
(Jas 5:7)	Be patient therefore, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. Behold, the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, being patient over it, until it receives the early and late rain.
(Jas 5:8)	You also be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand.
(Jas 5:11)	Behold, we call them blessed who endured. You have heard of the perseverance of Job, and have seen the Lord in the outcome, and how the Lord is full of compassion and mercy.
(Jas 4:10)	Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he will exalt you.
(1Pet 2:20)	For what glory is it if, when you sin, you patiently endure beating? But if, when you do well, you patiently endure suffering, this is commendable with God.
(1Pet 5:6)	Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time,
(Heb 10:35)	Therefore don’t throw away your boldness, which has a great reward.
(Heb 10:37)	“In a very little while, he who comes will come, and will not wait.
＊	4. TO PERSEVERANCE
(Gal 6:9)	Let’s not be weary in doing good, for we will reap in due season, if we don’t give up.
(2John 1:8)	Watch yourselves, that we don’t lose the things which we have accomplished, but that we receive a full reward.
(2John 1:9)	Whoever transgresses and doesn’t remain in the teaching of Christ, doesn’t have God. He who remains in the teaching has both the Father and the Son.
(Matt 10:22)	You will be hated by all men for my name’s sake, but he who endures to the end will be saved.
(Matt 24:13)	But he who endures to the end will be saved.
(Rev 2:10)	Don’t be afraid of the things which you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison, that you may be tested; and you will have oppression for ten days. Be faithful to death, and I will give you the crown of life.
(John 8:31)	Jesus therefore said to those Jews who had believed him, “If you remain in my word, then you are truly my disciples.
(John 8:32)	You will know the truth, and the truth will make you free.” [8:32 Psalm 119:45 ]
(1Cor 15:58)	Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the Lord’s work, because you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord.
(Heb 10:23)	let’s hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering; for he who promised is faithful.
(Heb 10:35)	Therefore don’t throw away your boldness, which has a great reward.
(1John 2:24)	Therefore, as for you, let that remain in you which you heard from the beginning. If that which you heard from the beginning remains in you, you also will remain in the Son, and in the Father.
(1John 2:28)	Now, little children, remain in him, that when he appears, we may have boldness, and not be ashamed before him at his coming.
(John 15:7)	If you remain in me, and my words remain in you, you will ask whatever you desire, and it will be done for you.
＊	TO HIM THAT OVERCOMES
(Rom 12:21)	Don’t be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.
(Rev 21:7)	He who overcomes, I will give him these things. I will be his God, and he will be my son.
(Rev 2:7)	He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies. To him who overcomes I will give to eat from the tree of life, which is in the Paradise of my God.
(Rev 3:5)	He who overcomes will be arrayed in white garments, and I will in no way blot his name out of the book of life, and I will confess his name before my Father, and before his angels.
(Rev 3:12)	He who overcomes, I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God, and he will go out from there no more. I will write on him the name of my God and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which comes down out of heaven from my God, and my own new name.
(Rev 3:21)	He who overcomes, I will give to him to sit down with me on my throne, as I also overcame, and sat down with my Father on his throne.
(Rev 2:11)	He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies. He who overcomes won’t be harmed by the second death.
(Rev 2:17)	He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies. To him who overcomes, to him I will give of the hidden manna, [2:17 Manna is supernatural food, named after the Hebrew for “What is it?”. See Exodus 11:7-9 .] and I will give him a white stone, and on the stone a new name written, which no one knows but he who receives it.
(Rev 2:26)	He who overcomes, and he who keeps my works to the end, to him I will give authority over the nations.
(Rev 2:28)	and I will give him the morning star.
＊	PART THREE
＊	PROMISES OF THE GROWTH AND GLORY OF THE CHURCH
＊	1. THE ENLARGEMENT OF THE CHURCH, AND SPREAD OF THE GOSPEL, AND KINGDOM OF CHRIST
(Ps 2:8)	Ask of me, and I will give the nations for your inheritance, the uttermost parts of the earth for your possession.
(Ps 2:9)	You shall break them with a rod of iron. You shall dash them in pieces like a potter’s vessel.”
(Isa 19:21)	Yahweh will be known to Egypt, and the Egyptians will know Yahweh in that day. Yes, they will worship with sacrifice and offering, and will vow a vow to Yahweh, and will perform it.
(Isa 19:24)	In that day, Israel will be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, a blessing within the earth;
(Isa 19:25)	because Yahweh of Armies has blessed them, saying, “Blessed be Egypt my people, Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel my inheritance.”
(Ps 68:31)	Princes shall come out of Egypt. Ethiopia shall hurry to stretch out her hands to God.
(Ps 67:2)	That your way may be known on earth, and your salvation among all nations,
(Ps 67:7)	God will bless us. All the ends of the earth shall fear him.
(Ps 72:8)	He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, from the River to the ends of the earth.
(Ps 72:11)	Yes, all kings shall fall down before him. All nations shall serve him.
(Ps 72:17)	His name endures forever. His name continues as long as the sun. Men shall be blessed by him. All nations will call him blessed.
(Ps 72:19)	Blessed be his glorious name forever! Let the whole earth be filled with his glory! Amen and amen.
(Isa 2:2)	It shall happen in the latter days, that the mountain of Yahweh’s house shall be established on the top of the mountains, and shall be raised above the hills; and all nations shall flow to it.
(Isa 2:3)	Many peoples shall go and say, “Come, let’s go up to the mountain of Yahweh, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths.” For the law shall go out of Zion, and Yahweh’s word from Jerusalem.
(Mic 4:2)	Many nations will go and say, “Come! Let’s go up to the mountain of Yahweh, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths.” For the law will go out of Zion, and Yahweh’s word from Jerusalem;
(Ps 86:9)	All nations you have made will come and worship before you, Lord. They shall glorify your name.
(Ps 110:3)	Your people offer themselves willingly in the day of your power, in holy array. Out of the womb of the morning, you have the dew of your youth.
(Isa 11:10)	It will happen in that day that the nations will seek the root of Jesse, who stands as a banner of the peoples; and his resting place will be glorious.
(Ps 102:15)	So the nations will fear Yahweh’s name, all the kings of the earth your glory.
(Ps 102:16)	For Yahweh has built up Zion. He has appeared in his glory.
(Ps 22:27)	All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to Yahweh. All the relatives of the nations shall worship before you.
(Ps 22:28)	For the kingdom is Yahweh’s. He is the ruler over the nations.
(Isa 23:18)	Her merchandise and her wages will be holiness to Yahweh. It will not be treasured nor laid up; for her merchandise will be for those who dwell before Yahweh, to eat sufficiently, and for durable clothing.
(Isa 27:6)	In days to come, Jacob will take root. Israel will blossom and bud. They will fill the surface of the world with fruit.
(Isa 40:3)	The voice of one who calls out, “Prepare the way of Yahweh in the wilderness! Make a level highway in the desert for our God.
(Isa 40:5)	Yahweh’s glory shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together; for the mouth of Yahweh has spoken it.”
(Isa 42:1)	“Behold, my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen, in whom my soul delights: I have put my Spirit on him. He will bring justice to the nations.
(Isa 42:4)	He will not fail nor be discouraged, until he has set justice in the earth, and the islands wait for his law.”
(Isa 42:6)	“I, Yahweh, have called you in righteousness. I will hold your hand. I will keep you, and make you a covenant for the people, as a light for the nations,
(Isa 42:7)	to open the blind eyes, to bring the prisoners out of the dungeon, and those who sit in darkness out of the prison.
(Isa 45:23)	I have sworn by myself. The word has gone out of my mouth in righteousness, and will not be revoked, that to me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall take an oath.
(Isa 45:24)	They will say of me, ‘There is righteousness and strength only in Yahweh.’” Even to him will men come. All those who raged against him will be disappointed.
(Isa 45:14)	Yahweh says: “The labor of Egypt, and the merchandise of Ethiopia, and the Sabeans, men of stature, will come over to you, and they will be yours. They will go after you. They shall come over in chains. They will bow down to you. They will make supplication to you: ‘Surely God is in you; and there is no one else. There is no other god.
(Isa 49:6)	Indeed, he says, “It is too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and to restore the preserved of Israel. I will also give you as a light to the nations, that you may be my salvation to the end of the earth.”
(Isa 49:12)	Behold, these shall come from afar, and behold, these from the north and from the west; and these from the land of Sinim.”
(Isa 49:18)	Lift up your eyes all around, and see: all these gather themselves together, and come to you. As I live,” says Yahweh, “you shall surely clothe yourself with them all as with an ornament, and dress yourself with them, like a bride.
(Isa 49:20)	The children of your bereavement will say in your ears, ‘This place is too small for me. Give me a place to live in.’
(Isa 49:8)	Yahweh says, “I have answered you in an acceptable time. I have helped you in a day of salvation. I will preserve you and give you for a covenant of the people, to raise up the land, to make them inherit the desolate heritage,
(Isa 49:9)	saying to those who are bound, ‘Come out!’; to those who are in darkness, ‘Show yourselves!’ “They shall feed along the paths, and their pasture shall be on all treeless heights.
(Isa 49:11)	I will make all my mountains a road, and my highways shall be exalted.
(Isa 49:19)	“For, as for your waste and your desolate places, and your land that has been destroyed, surely now that land will be too small for the inhabitants, and those who swallowed you up will be far away.
(Isa 49:21)	Then you will say in your heart, ‘Who has conceived these for me, since I have been bereaved of my children and am alone, an exile, and wandering back and forth? Who has brought these up? Behold, I was left alone. Where were these?’”
(Isa 49:22)	The Lord Yahweh says, “Behold, I will lift up my hand to the nations, and lift up my banner to the peoples. They shall bring your sons in their bosom, and your daughters shall be carried on their shoulders.
(Isa 60:4)	“Lift up your eyes all around, and see: they all gather themselves together. They come to you. Your sons will come from far away, and your daughters will be carried in arms.
(Isa 52:10)	Yahweh has made his holy arm bare in the eyes of all the nations. All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God.
(Isa 60:3)	Nations will come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising.
(Isa 60:8)	“Who are these who fly as a cloud, and as the doves to their windows?
(Isa 60:10)	“Foreigners will build up your walls, and their kings will serve you: for in my wrath I struck you, but in my favor I have had mercy on you.
(Isa 60:4)	“Lift up your eyes all around, and see: they all gather themselves together. They come to you. Your sons will come from far away, and your daughters will be carried in arms.
(Isa 60:5)	Then you shall see and be radiant, and your heart will thrill and be enlarged; because the abundance of the sea will be turned to you. The wealth of the nations will come to you.
(Isa 60:6)	A multitude of camels will cover you, the dromedaries of Midian and Ephah. All from Sheba will come. They will bring gold and frankincense, and will proclaim the praises of Yahweh.
(Isa 60:7)	All the flocks of Kedar will be gathered together to you. The rams of Nebaioth will serve you. They will be accepted as offerings on my altar; and I will beautify my glorious house.
(Isa 60:11)	Your gates also shall be open continually; they shall not be shut day nor night, that men may bring to you the wealth of the nations, and their kings led captive.
(Isa 60:16)	You will also drink the milk of the nations, and will nurse from royal breasts. Then you will know that I, Yahweh, am your Savior, your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.
(Isa 51:4)	“Listen to me, my people; and hear me, my nation, for a law will go out from me, and I will establish my justice for a light to the peoples.
(Isa 51:5)	My righteousness is near. My salvation has gone out, and my arms will judge the peoples. The islands will wait for me, and they will trust my arm.
(Isa 51:16)	I have put my words in your mouth and have covered you in the shadow of my hand, that I may plant the heavens, and lay the foundations of the earth, and tell Zion, ‘You are my people.’”
(Isa 55:4)	Behold, I have given him for a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander to the peoples.
(Isa 55:5)	Behold, you shall call a nation that you don’t know; and a nation that didn’t know you shall run to you, because of Yahweh your God, and for the Holy One of Israel; for he has glorified you.”
(Isa 59:19)	So they will fear Yahweh’s name from the west, and his glory from the rising of the sun; for he will come as a rushing stream, which Yahweh’s breath drives.
(Isa 59:20)	“A Redeemer will come to Zion, and to those who turn from disobedience in Jacob,” says Yahweh.
(Isa 54:1)	“Sing, barren, you who didn’t give birth; break out into singing, and cry aloud, you who didn’t travail with child: for more are the children of the desolate than the children of the married wife,” says Yahweh.
(Isa 54:3)	For you will spread out on the right hand and on the left; and your offspring will possess the nations and settle in desolate cities.
(Matt 24:14)	This Good News of the Kingdom will be preached in the whole world for a testimony to all the nations, and then the end will come.
(Isa 66:8)	Who has heard of such a thing? Who has seen such things? Shall a land be born in one day? Shall a nation be born at once? For as soon as Zion travailed, she gave birth to her children.
(Isa 66:9)	Shall I bring to the birth, and not cause to be delivered?” says Yahweh. “Shall I who cause to give birth shut the womb?” says your God.
(Isa 66:18)	“For I know their works and their thoughts. The time comes that I will gather all nations and languages, and they will come, and will see my glory.
(Isa 66:20)	They shall bring all your brothers out of all the nations for an offering to Yahweh, on horses, in chariots, in litters, on mules, and on camels, to my holy mountain Jerusalem, says Yahweh, as the children of Israel bring their offering in a clean vessel into Yahweh’s house.
(Isa 66:23)	It shall happen that from one new moon to another, and from one Sabbath to another, all flesh will come to worship before me,” says Yahweh.
(Zech 2:10)	Sing and rejoice, daughter of Zion; for, behold, I come, and I will dwell within you,’ says Yahweh.
(Zech 2:11)	Many nations shall join themselves to Yahweh in that day, and shall be my people; and I will dwell among you, and you shall know that Yahweh of Armies has sent me to you.
(Dan 2:44)	“In the days of those kings the God of heaven will set up a kingdom which will never be destroyed, nor will its sovereignty be left to another people; but it will break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it will stand forever.
(Dan 7:13)	“I saw in the night visions, and behold, there came with the clouds of the sky one like a son of man, and he came even to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him.
(Dan 7:14)	Dominion was given him, and glory, and a kingdom, that all the peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which will not pass away, and his kingdom that which will not be destroyed.
(Dan 7:27)	The kingdom and the dominion, and the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole sky, will be given to the people of the saints of the Most High. His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions will serve and obey him.’
(Zech 14:9)	Yahweh will be King over all the earth. In that day Yahweh will be one, and his name one.
(Matt 8:11)	I tell you that many will come from the east and the west, and will sit down with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the Kingdom of Heaven,
(Acts 15:17)	that the rest of men may seek after the Lord; all the Gentiles who are called by my name, says the Lord, who does all these things.’ [15:17 Amos 9:11-12 ]
(Amos 9:11)	In that day I will raise up the tent of David who is fallen, and close up its breaches, and I will raise up its ruins, and I will build it as in the days of old;
(Amos 9:12)	that they may possess the remnant of Edom, and all the nations who are called by my name,” says Yahweh who does this.
(Isa 53:10)	Yet it pleased Yahweh to bruise him. He has caused him to suffer. When you make his soul an offering for sin, he will see his offspring. He will prolong his days and Yahweh’s pleasure will prosper in his hand.
(Isa 53:12)	Therefore I will give him a portion with the great. He will divide the plunder with the strong; because he poured out his soul to death and was counted with the transgressors; yet he bore the sins of many and made intercession for the transgressors.
(John 12:32)	And I, if I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself.”
(Zech 6:15)	Those who are far off shall come and build in Yahweh’s temple; and you shall know that Yahweh of Armies has sent me to you. This will happen, if you will diligently obey Yahweh your God’s voice.”’” [6:15 The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).]
(Isa 65:17)	“For, behold, I create new heavens and a new earth; and the former things will not be remembered, nor come into mind.
(Mal 1:11)	For from the rising of the sun even to its going down, my name is great among the nations, and in every place incense will be offered to my name, and a pure offering: for my name is great among the nations,” says Yahweh of Armies.
(Zech 8:21)	and the inhabitants of one shall go to another, saying, ‘Let’s go speedily to entreat the favor of Yahweh, and to seek Yahweh of Armies. I will go also.’
(Zech 8:23)	Yahweh of Armies says: “In those days, ten men will take hold, out of all the languages of the nations, they will take hold of the skirt of him who is a Jew, saying, ‘We will go with you, for we have heard that God is with you.’”
(Rev 11:15)	The seventh angel sounded, and great voices in heaven followed, saying, “The kingdom of the world has become the Kingdom of our Lord, and of his Christ. He will reign forever and ever!”
(Rev 7:9)	After these things I looked, and behold, a great multitude, which no man could count, out of every nation and of all tribes, peoples, and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, dressed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands.
(Rev 7:10)	They cried with a loud voice, saying, “Salvation be to our God, who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb!”
(Rev 12:10)	I heard a loud voice in heaven, saying, “Now the salvation, the power, and the Kingdom of our God, and the authority of his Christ has come; for the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down, who accuses them before our God day and night.
＊	2. GLORY OF THE CHURCH
(Rev 21:18)	The construction of its wall was jasper. The city was pure gold, like pure glass.
(Rev 21:21)	The twelve gates were twelve pearls. Each one of the gates was made of one pearl. The street of the city was pure gold, like transparent glass.
(Rev 21:10)	He carried me away in the Spirit to a great and high mountain, and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God,
(Rev 21:11)	having the glory of God. Her light was like a most precious stone, as if it were a jasper stone, clear as crystal;
(Rev 21:22)	I saw no temple in it, for the Lord God, the Almighty, and the Lamb, are its temple.
(Rev 21:26)	and they shall bring the glory and the honor of the nations into it so that they may enter.
(Ps 45:13)	The princess inside is all glorious. Her clothing is interwoven with gold.
(Isa 54:11)	“You afflicted, tossed with storms, and not comforted, behold, I will set your stones in beautiful colors, and lay your foundations with sapphires.
(Isa 54:12)	I will make your pinnacles of rubies, your gates of sparkling jewels, and all your walls of precious stones.
(Isa 60:1)	“Arise, shine; for your light has come, and Yahweh’s glory has risen on you.
(Isa 60:2)	For, behold, darkness will cover the earth, and thick darkness the peoples; but Yahweh will arise on you, and his glory shall be seen on you.
(Isa 60:13)	“The glory of Lebanon shall come to you, the cypress tree, the pine, and the box tree together, to beautify the place of my sanctuary; and I will make the place of my feet glorious.
(Isa 60:15)	“Whereas you have been forsaken and hated, so that no one passed through you, I will make you an eternal excellency, a joy of many generations.
(Isa 60:19)	The sun will be no more your light by day; nor will the brightness of the moon give light to you, but Yahweh will be your everlasting light, and your God will be your glory.
(Ps 87:3)	Glorious things are spoken about you, city of God. Selah.
(Isa 46:13)	I bring my righteousness near. It is not far off, and my salvation will not wait. I will grant salvation to Zion, my glory to Israel.
(Isa 62:2)	The nations will see your righteousness, and all kings your glory. You will be called by a new name, which Yahweh’s mouth will name.
(Isa 62:3)	You will also be a crown of beauty in Yahweh‘s hand, and a royal diadem in your God’s hand.
(Ps 48:2)	Beautiful in elevation, the joy of the whole earth, is Mount Zion, on the north sides, the city of the great King.
(Ps 48:12)	Walk about Zion, and go around her. Number its towers.
(Ps 48:13)	Notice her bulwarks. Consider her palaces, that you may tell it to the next generation.
＊	3. INCREASE OF LIGHT AND KNOWLEDGE, AND OF THE MEANS OF GRACE
(Isa 54:13)	All your children will be taught by Yahweh; and your children’s peace will be great.
(Dan 12:4)	But you, Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book, even to the time of the end. Many will run back and forth, and knowledge will be increased.”
(Isa 11:9)	They will not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain; for the earth will be full of the knowledge of Yahweh, as the waters cover the sea.
(Isa 25:6)	In this mountain, Yahweh of Armies will make all peoples a feast of choice meat, [25:6 literally, fat things] a feast of choice wines, of choice meat full of marrow, of well refined choice wines.
(Isa 25:7)	He will destroy in this mountain the surface of the covering that covers all peoples, and the veil that is spread over all nations.
(Isa 41:18)	I will open rivers on the bare heights, and springs in the middle of the valleys. I will make the wilderness a pool of water, and the dry land springs of water.
(Isa 41:19)	I will put cedar, acacia, myrtle, and oil trees in the wilderness. I will set cypress trees, pine, and box trees together in the desert;
(Isa 35:6)	Then the lame man will leap like a deer, and the tongue of the mute will sing; for waters will break out in the wilderness, and streams in the desert.
(Isa 35:8)	A highway will be there, a road, and it will be called “The Holy Way”. The unclean shall not pass over it, but it will be for those who walk in the Way. Wicked fools shall not go there.
(Isa 52:7)	How beautiful on the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who publishes peace, who brings good news, who proclaims salvation, who says to Zion, “Your God reigns!”
(Isa 52:8)	Your watchmen lift up their voice. Together they sing; for they shall see eye to eye when Yahweh returns to Zion.
(Isa 29:18)	In that day, the deaf will hear the words of the book, and the eyes of the blind will see out of obscurity and out of darkness.
(Isa 29:24)	They also who err in spirit will come to understanding, and those who grumble will receive instruction.”
＊	4. INCREASE OF PURITY, HOLINESS, AND RIGHTEOUSNESS
(Isa 33:5)	Yahweh is exalted, for he dwells on high. He has filled Zion with justice and righteousness.
(Isa 33:6)	There will be stability in your times, abundance of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge. The fear of Yahweh is your treasure.
(Isa 60:21)	Then your people will all be righteous. They will inherit the land forever, the branch of my planting, the work of my hands, that I may be glorified.
(Isa 4:3)	It will happen that he who is left in Zion and he who remains in Jerusalem shall be called holy, even everyone who is written among the living in Jerusalem,
(Isa 4:4)	when the Lord shall have washed away the filth of the daughters of Zion, and shall have purged the blood of Jerusalem from within it, by the spirit of justice and by the spirit of burning.
(Rev 19:8)	It was given to her that she would array herself in bright, pure, fine linen: for the fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints.
(Isa 32:15)	until the Spirit is poured on us from on high, and the wilderness becomes a fruitful field, and the fruitful field is considered a forest.
(Isa 32:16)	Then justice will dwell in the wilderness; and righteousness will remain in the fruitful field.
(Mal 3:3)	and he will sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi, and refine them as gold and silver; and they shall offer to Yahweh offerings in righteousness.
(Mal 3:4)	Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasant to Yahweh, as in the days of old, and as in ancient years.
(Zech 14:20)	In that day there will be on the bells of the horses, “HOLY TO YAHWEH”; and the pots in Yahweh’s house will be like the bowls before the altar.
(Zech 14:21)	Yes, every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah will be holy to Yahweh of Armies; and all those who sacrifice will come and take of them, and cook in them. In that day there will no longer be a Canaanite in the house of Yahweh of Armies.
(Ps 72:5)	They shall fear you while the sun endures; and as long as the moon, throughout all generations.
(Isa 45:8)	Rain, you heavens, from above, and let the skies pour down righteousness. Let the earth open, that it may produce salvation, and let it cause righteousness to spring up with it. I, Yahweh, have created it.
(Isa 61:11)	For as the earth produces its bud, and as the garden causes the things that are sown in it to spring up, so the Lord Yahweh will cause righteousness and praise to spring up before all the nations.
(Ps 85:10)	Mercy and truth meet together. Righteousness and peace have kissed each other.
(Ps 85:11)	Truth springs out of the earth. Righteousness has looked down from heaven.
(Ps 85:13)	Righteousness goes before him, And prepares the way for his steps.
＊	5. PEACE, LOVE AND UNITY
(Isa 2:4)	He will judge between the nations, and will decide concerning many peoples. They shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more.
(John 17:20)	Not for these only do I pray, but for those also who will believe in me through their word,
(John 17:23)	I in them, and you in me, that they may be perfected into one; that the world may know that you sent me and loved them, even as you loved me.
(Isa 11:6)	The wolf will live with the lamb, and the leopard will lie down with the young goat, the calf, the young lion, and the fattened calf together; and a little child will lead them.
(Isa 11:9)	They will not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain; for the earth will be full of the knowledge of Yahweh, as the waters cover the sea.
(Isa 11:13)	The envy also of Ephraim will depart, and those who persecute Judah will be cut off. Ephraim won’t envy Judah, and Judah won’t persecute Ephraim.
(Ps 72:3)	The mountains shall bring prosperity to the people. The hills bring the fruit of righteousness.
(Ps 72:7)	In his days, the righteous shall flourish, and abundance of peace, until the moon is no more.
(Eph 4:16)	from whom all the body, being fitted and knit together through that which every joint supplies, according to the working in measure of each individual part, makes the body increase to the building up of itself in love.
＊	6. SUBMISSION AND DESTRUCTION OF THE ENEMIES OF THE CHURCH
(Isa 27:1)	In that day, Yahweh with his hard and great and strong sword will punish leviathan, the fleeing serpent, and leviathan the twisted serpent; and he will kill the dragon that is in the sea.
(Ps 110:2)	Yahweh will send out the rod of your strength out of Zion. Rule among your enemies.
(Ps 110:5)	The Lord is at your right hand. He will crush kings in the day of his wrath.
(Ps 110:6)	He will judge among the nations. He will heap up dead bodies. He will crush the ruler of the whole earth.
(Isa 59:19)	So they will fear Yahweh’s name from the west, and his glory from the rising of the sun; for he will come as a rushing stream, which Yahweh’s breath drives.
(Isa 11:4)	but he will judge the poor with righteousness, and decide with equity for the humble of the earth. He will strike the earth with the rod of his mouth; and with the breath of his lips he will kill the wicked.
(Isa 41:11)	Behold, all those who are incensed against you will be disappointed and confounded. Those who strive with you will be like nothing, and shall perish.
(Isa 41:12)	You will seek them, and won’t find them, even those who contend with you. Those who war against you will be as nothing, as a non-existent thing.
(Isa 41:15)	Behold, I have made you into a new sharp threshing instrument with teeth. You will thresh the mountains, and beat them small, and will make the hills like chaff.
(Isa 41:16)	You will winnow them, and the wind will carry them away, and the whirlwind will scatter them. You will rejoice in Yahweh. You will glory in the Holy One of Israel.
(Isa 49:24)	Shall the plunder be taken from the mighty, or the lawful captives be delivered?
(Isa 49:26)	I will feed those who oppress you with their own flesh; and they will be drunk on their own blood, as with sweet wine. Then all flesh shall know that I, Yahweh, am your Savior and your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.”
(Isa 60:14)	The sons of those who afflicted you will come bowing to you; and all those who despised you will bow themselves down at the soles of your feet. They will call you Yahweh’s City, the Zion of the Holy One of Israel.
＊	THE DESTRUCTION OF ANTICHRIST, BABYLON, ETC.
(2Thess 2:8)	Then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord will kill with the breath of his mouth, and destroy by the manifestation of his coming;
(Dan 7:24)	As for the ten horns, ten kings will arise out of this kingdom. Another will arise after them; and he will be different from the former, and he will put down three kings.
(Dan 7:26)	“‘But the judgment will be set, and they will take away his dominion, to consume and to destroy it to the end.
(Rev 14:9)	Another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a great voice, “If anyone worships the beast and his image, and receives a mark on his forehead, or on his hand,
(Rev 14:10)	he also will drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is prepared unmixed in the cup of his anger. He will be tormented with fire and sulfur in the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb.
(Ezek 26:19)	“For the Lord Yahweh says: ‘When I make you a desolate city, like the cities that are not inhabited; when I bring up the deep on you, and the great waters cover you;
(Ezek 26:21)	I will make you a terror, and you will no more have any being. Though you are sought for, yet you will never be found again,’ says the Lord Yahweh.”
(Rev 18:2)	He cried with a mighty voice, saying, “Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great, and she has become a habitation of demons, a prison of every unclean spirit, and a prison of every unclean and hateful bird!
(Rev 19:19)	I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together to make war against him who sat on the horse, and against his army.
(Rev 19:20)	The beast was taken, and with him the false prophet who worked the signs in his sight, with which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast and those who worshiped his image. These two were thrown alive into the lake of fire that burns with sulfur.
(Rev 20:7)	And after the thousand years, Satan will be released from his prison,
(Rev 20:9)	They went up over the width of the earth, and surrounded the camp of the saints, and the beloved city. Fire came down out of heaven from God and devoured them.
(Ezek 38:1)	Yahweh’s word came to me, saying,
(Ezek 39:1)	“You, son of man, prophesy against Gog, and say, ‘The Lord Yahweh says: “Behold, I am against you, Gog, prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal.
＊	7. FAVOR AND SUBMISSION OF KINGS TO THE KINGDOM OF CHRIST
(Isa 52:15)	so he will cleanse [52:15 or, sprinkle] many nations. Kings will shut their mouths at him; for they will see that which had not been told them, and they will understand that which they had not heard.
(Isa 49:7)	Yahweh, the Redeemer of Israel, and his Holy One, says to him whom man despises, to him whom the nation abhors, to a servant of rulers: “Kings shall see and rise up, princes, and they shall worship, because of Yahweh who is faithful, even the Holy One of Israel, who has chosen you.”
(Isa 49:23)	Kings shall be your foster fathers, and their queens your nursing mothers. They will bow down to you with their faces to the earth, and lick the dust of your feet. Then you will know that I am Yahweh; and those who wait for me shall not be disappointed.”
(Isa 60:3)	Nations will come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising.
(Isa 60:10)	“Foreigners will build up your walls, and their kings will serve you: for in my wrath I struck you, but in my favor I have had mercy on you.
(Isa 60:11)	Your gates also shall be open continually; they shall not be shut day nor night, that men may bring to you the wealth of the nations, and their kings led captive.
(Isa 60:16)	You will also drink the milk of the nations, and will nurse from royal breasts. Then you will know that I, Yahweh, am your Savior, your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.
＊	8. THE SECURITY, TRANQUILITY, AND PROSPERITY OF THE CHURCH
(Isa 51:3)	For Yahweh has comforted Zion. He has comforted all her waste places, and has made her wilderness like Eden, and her desert like the garden of Yahweh. Joy and gladness will be found in them, thanksgiving, and the voice of melody.
(Isa 33:20)	Look at Zion, the city of our appointed festivals. Your eyes will see Jerusalem, a quiet habitation, a tent that won’t be removed. Its stakes will never be plucked up, nor will any of its cords be broken.
(Isa 33:22)	For Yahweh is our judge. Yahweh is our lawgiver. Yahweh is our king. He will save us.
(Matt 16:18)	I also tell you that you are Peter, [16:18 Peter’s name, Petros in Greek, is the word for a specific rock or stone.] and on this rock [16:18 Greek, petra, a rock mass or bedrock.] I will build my assembly, and the gates of Hades [16:18 or, Hell] will not prevail against it.
(Isa 54:14)	You will be established in righteousness. You will be far from oppression, for you will not be afraid, and far from terror, for it shall not come near you.
(Isa 54:15)	Behold, they may gather together, but not by me. Whoever gathers together against you will fall because of you.
(Isa 54:17)	No weapon that is formed against you will prevail; and you will condemn every tongue that rises against you in judgment. This is the heritage of Yahweh’s servants, and their righteousness is of me,” says Yahweh.
(Isa 66:10)	“Rejoice with Jerusalem, and be glad for her, all you who love her. Rejoice for joy with her, all you who mourn over her;
(Isa 66:12)	For Yahweh says, “Behold, I will extend peace to her like a river, and the glory of the nations like an overflowing stream; and you will nurse. You will be carried on her side, and will be dandled on her knees.
(Isa 66:13)	As one whom his mother comforts, so I will comfort you. You will be comforted in Jerusalem.”
(Isa 66:14)	You will see it, and your heart shall rejoice, and your bones will flourish like the tender grass. Yahweh’s hand will be known among his servants; and he will have indignation against his enemies.
(Jer 33:16)	In those days Judah will be saved, and Jerusalem will dwell safely. This is the name by which she will be called: Yahweh our righteousness.”
(Isa 27:2)	In that day, sing to her, “A pleasant vineyard!
(Isa 27:3)	I, Yahweh, am its keeper. I will water it every moment. Lest anyone damage it, I will keep it night and day.
(Dan 7:27)	The kingdom and the dominion, and the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole sky, will be given to the people of the saints of the Most High. His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions will serve and obey him.’
(Ps 102:13)	You will arise and have mercy on Zion; for it is time to have pity on her. Yes, the set time has come.
(Ps 102:14)	For your servants take pleasure in her stones, and have pity on her dust.
(Ps 102:16)	For Yahweh has built up Zion. He has appeared in his glory.
(Isa 4:5)	Yahweh will create over the whole habitation of Mount Zion and over her assemblies, a cloud and smoke by day, and the shining of a flaming fire by night, for over all the glory will be a canopy.
(Isa 4:6)	There will be a pavilion for a shade in the daytime from the heat, and for a refuge and for a shelter from storm and from rain.
(Isa 65:18)	But be glad and rejoice forever in that which I create; for, behold, I create Jerusalem to be a delight, and her people a joy.
(Isa 65:19)	I will rejoice in Jerusalem, and delight in my people; and the voice of weeping and the voice of crying will be heard in her no more.
＊	9. THE PERPETUAL CONTINUANCE OF THE CHURCH
(Isa 66:22)	“For as the new heavens and the new earth, which I will make, shall remain before me,” says Yahweh, “so your offspring and your name shall remain.
(Jer 31:35)	Yahweh, who gives the sun for a light by day, and the ordinances of the moon and of the stars for a light by night, who stirs up the sea, so that its waves roar; Yahweh of Armies is his name, says:
(Jer 31:37)	Yahweh says: “If heaven above can be measured, and the foundations of the earth searched out beneath, then I will also cast off all the offspring of Israel for all that they have done,” says Yahweh.
(Jer 33:20)	“Yahweh says: ‘If you can break my covenant of the day and my covenant of the night, so that there will not be day and night in their time;
(Jer 33:22)	As the army of the sky can’t be counted, and the sand of the sea can’t be measured; so I will multiply the offspring of David my servant and the Levites who minister to me.’”
(Jer 33:25)	Yahweh says: “If my covenant of day and night fails, if I have not appointed the ordinances of heaven and earth;
(Jer 33:26)	then I will also cast away the offspring of Jacob, and of David my servant, so that I will not take of his offspring to be rulers over the offspring of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob: for I will cause their captivity to be reversed and will have mercy on them.”
(Matt 28:20)	teaching them to observe all things that I commanded you. Behold, I am with you always, even to the end of the age.” Amen.
(Luke 1:33)	and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. There will be no end to his Kingdom.”
(Dan 7:14)	Dominion was given him, and glory, and a kingdom, that all the peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which will not pass away, and his kingdom that which will not be destroyed.
(Rev 11:15)	The seventh angel sounded, and great voices in heaven followed, saying, “The kingdom of the world has become the Kingdom of our Lord, and of his Christ. He will reign forever and ever!”
(Dan 2:44)	“In the days of those kings the God of heaven will set up a kingdom which will never be destroyed, nor will its sovereignty be left to another people; but it will break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it will stand forever.
(Isa 59:21)	“As for me, this is my covenant with them,” says Yahweh. “My Spirit who is on you, and my words which I have put in your mouth shall not depart out of your mouth, nor out of the mouth of your offspring, nor out of the mouth of your offspring’s offspring,” says Yahweh, “from now on and forever.”
＊	10. THE CONVERSION AND RESTORATION OF THE JEWS
(Zech 14:11)	Men will dwell therein, and there will be no more curse; but Jerusalem will dwell safely.
(Ezek 16:55)	Your sisters, Sodom and her daughters, will return to their former estate; and Samaria and her daughters will return to their former estate; and you and your daughters will return to your former estate.
(Ezek 16:60)	Nevertheless I will remember my covenant with you in the days of your youth, and I will establish to you an everlasting covenant.
(Ezek 16:61)	Then you will remember your ways and be ashamed, when you receive your sisters, your elder sisters and your younger; and I will give them to you for daughters, but not by your covenant.
(Ezek 16:62)	I will establish my covenant with you. Then you will know that I am Yahweh;
(Ezek 16:63)	that you may remember, and be confounded, and never open your mouth any more, because of your shame, when I have forgiven you all that you have done,” says the Lord Yahweh.’”
(Hos 1:10)	Yet the number of the children of Israel will be as the sand of the sea, which can’t be measured or counted; and it will come to pass that, in the place where it was said to them, ‘You are not my people,’ they will be called ‘sons of the living God.’
(Hos 1:11)	The children of Judah and the children of Israel will be gathered together, and they will appoint themselves one head, and will go up from the land; for great will be the day of Jezreel.
(Jer 33:7)	I will cause the captivity of Judah and the captivity of Israel to return, and will build them, as at the first.
(Jer 33:9)	This city will be to me for a name of joy, for praise, and for glory, before all the nations of the earth, which will hear all the good that I do to them, and will fear and tremble for all the good and for all the peace that I provide to it.’”
(Jer 33:15)	“In those days and at that time, I will cause a Branch of righteousness to grow up to David. He will execute justice and righteousness in the land.
(Jer 33:16)	In those days Judah will be saved, and Jerusalem will dwell safely. This is the name by which she will be called: Yahweh our righteousness.”
(Jer 33:24)	“Don’t consider what this people has spoken, saying, ‘Has Yahweh cast off the two families which he chose?’ Thus they despise my people, that they should be no more a nation before them.”
(Jer 33:26)	then I will also cast away the offspring of Jacob, and of David my servant, so that I will not take of his offspring to be rulers over the offspring of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob: for I will cause their captivity to be reversed and will have mercy on them.”
(Jer 50:4)	“In those days, and in that time,” says Yahweh, “the children of Israel will come, they and the children of Judah together; they will go on their way weeping, and will seek Yahweh their God.
(Jer 50:5)	They will inquire concerning Zion with their faces turned toward it, saying, ‘Come, and join yourselves to Yahweh in an everlasting covenant that will not be forgotten.’
(Jer 50:19)	I will bring Israel again to his pasture, and he will feed on Carmel and Bashan. His soul will be satisfied on the hills of Ephraim and in Gilead.
(Jer 50:20)	In those days, and in that time,” says Yahweh, “the iniquity of Israel will be sought for, and there will be none; also the sins of Judah, and they won’t be found; for I will pardon them whom I leave as a remnant.
(Mic 2:12)	I will surely assemble, Jacob, all of you; I will surely gather the remnant of Israel; I will put them together as the sheep of Bozrah, as a flock in the middle of their pasture; they will swarm with people.
(Mic 2:13)	He who breaks open the way goes up before them. They break through the gate, and go out. And their king passes on before them, with Yahweh at their head.
(Ezek 36:11)	I will multiply man and animal on you. They will increase and be fruitful. I will cause you to be inhabited as you were before, and you will do better than at your beginnings. Then you will know that I am Yahweh.
(Ezek 36:24)	“‘“For I will take you from among the nations and gather you out of all the countries, and will bring you into your own land.
(Ezek 36:26)	I will also give you a new heart, and I will put a new spirit within you. I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will give you a heart of flesh.
(Ezek 36:33)	“‘The Lord Yahweh says: “In the day that I cleanse you from all your iniquities, I will cause the cities to be inhabited and the waste places will be built.
(Luke 21:24)	They will fall by the edge of the sword, and will be led captive into all the nations. Jerusalem will be trampled down by the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled.
(Ezek 37:25)	They will dwell in the land that I have given to Jacob my servant, in which your fathers lived. They will dwell therein, they, and their children, and their children’s children, forever. David my servant will be their prince forever.
(Ezek 20:34)	I will bring you out from the peoples, and will gather you out of the countries in which you are scattered with a mighty hand, with an outstretched arm, and with wrath poured out.
(Ezek 20:35)	I will bring you into the wilderness of the peoples, and there I will enter into judgment with you face to face.
(Ezek 20:37)	“I will cause you to pass under the rod, and I will bring you into the bond of the covenant.
(Ezek 20:38)	I will purge out from among you the rebels and those who disobey me. I will bring them out of the land where they live, but they shall not enter into the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am Yahweh.”
(Ezek 20:40)	For in my holy mountain, in the mountain of the height of Israel,” says the Lord Yahweh, “there all the house of Israel, all of them, shall serve me in the land. There I will accept them, and there I will require your offerings and the first fruits of your offerings, with all your holy things.
(Ezek 20:41)	I will accept you as a pleasant aroma when I bring you out from the peoples and gather you out of the countries in which you have been scattered. I will be sanctified in you in the sight of the nations.
(Ezek 20:44)	You will know that I am Yahweh, when I have dealt with you for my name’s sake, not according to your evil ways, nor according to your corrupt doings, you house of Israel,” says the Lord Yahweh.’”
(Jer 32:41)	Yes, I will rejoice over them to do them good, and I will plant them in this land assuredly with my whole heart and with my whole soul.”
(Jer 32:37)	“Behold, I will gather them out of all the countries where I have driven them in my anger, and in my wrath, and in great indignation; and I will bring them again to this place. I will cause them to dwell safely.
(Ezek 34:23)	I will set up one shepherd over them, and he will feed them, even my servant David. He will feed them, and he will be their shepherd.
(Ezek 34:24)	I, Yahweh, will be their God, and my servant David prince among them. I, Yahweh, have spoken it.
(Ezek 34:28)	They will no more be a prey to the nations, neither will the animals of the earth devour them; but they will dwell securely, and no one will make them afraid.
(Ezek 34:29)	I will raise up to them a plantation for renown, and they will no more be consumed with famine in the land, and not bear the shame of the nations any more.
(Ezek 34:11)	“‘For the Lord Yahweh says: “Behold, I myself, even I, will search for my sheep, and will seek them out.
(Ezek 34:16)	“I will seek that which was lost, and will bring back that which was driven away, and will bind up that which was broken, and will strengthen that which was sick; but I will destroy the fat and the strong. I will feed them in justice.”’
(Ezek 34:22)	therefore I will save my flock, and they will no more be a prey. I will judge between sheep and sheep.
(Hos 2:14)	“Therefore behold, I will allure her, and bring her into the wilderness, and speak tenderly to her.
(Hos 2:15)	I will give her vineyards from there, and the valley of Achor for a door of hope; and she will respond there, as in the days of her youth, and as in the day when she came up out of the land of Egypt.
(Hos 2:19)	I will betroth you to me forever. Yes, I will betroth you to me in righteousness, in justice, in loving kindness, and in compassion.
(Hos 2:16)	It will be in that day,” says Yahweh, “that you will call me ‘my husband,’ and no longer call me ‘my master.’
(2Cor 3:15)	But to this day, when Moses is read, a veil lies on their heart.
(2Cor 3:16)	But whenever someone turns to the Lord, the veil is taken away.
(Zech 2:10)	Sing and rejoice, daughter of Zion; for, behold, I come, and I will dwell within you,’ says Yahweh.
(Zech 2:12)	Yahweh will inherit Judah as his portion in the holy land, and will again choose Jerusalem.
(Mic 5:3)	Therefore he will abandon them until the time that she who is in labor gives birth. Then the rest of his brothers will return to the children of Israel.
(Mic 5:4)	He shall stand, and shall shepherd in the strength of Yahweh, in the majesty of the name of Yahweh his God: and they will live, for then he will be great to the ends of the earth.
(Mic 5:7)	The remnant of Jacob will be among many peoples, like dew from Yahweh, like showers on the grass, that don’t wait for man, nor wait for the sons of men.
(Mic 5:13)	I will cut off your engraved images and your pillars out from among you; and you shall no more worship the work of your hands.
(Mic 7:14)	Shepherd your people with your staff, the flock of your heritage, who dwell by themselves in a forest, in the middle of fertile pasture land, let them feed; in Bashan and Gilead, as in the days of old.
(Mic 7:17)	They will lick the dust like a serpent. Like crawling things of the earth they shall come trembling out of their dens. They will come with fear to Yahweh our God, and will be afraid because of you.
(Zeph 3:9)	For then I will purify the lips of the peoples, that they may all call on Yahweh’s name, to serve him shoulder to shoulder.
(Obad 1:17)	But in Mount Zion, there will be those who escape, and it will be holy. The house of Jacob will possess their possessions.
(Obad 1:21)	Saviors will go up on Mount Zion to judge the mountains of Esau, and the kingdom will be Yahweh’s.
(Hos 3:4)	For the children of Israel shall live many days without king, and without prince, and without sacrifice, and without sacred stone, and without ephod or idols.
(Hos 3:5)	Afterward the children of Israel shall return, and seek Yahweh their God, and David their king, and shall come with trembling to Yahweh and to his blessings in the last days.
(Joel 3:1)	“For, behold, in those days, and in that time, when I restore the fortunes of Judah and Jerusalem,
(Joel 3:2)	I will gather all nations, and will bring them down into the valley of Jehoshaphat; and I will execute judgment on them there for my people, and for my heritage, Israel, whom they have scattered among the nations. They have divided my land,
(Joel 3:17)	“So you will know that I am Yahweh, your God, dwelling in Zion, my holy mountain. Then Jerusalem will be holy, and no strangers will pass through her any more.
(Joel 3:20)	But Judah will be inhabited forever, and Jerusalem from generation to generation.
(Joel 3:7)	Behold, I will stir them up out of the place where you have sold them, and will return your repayment on your own head;
(Joel 3:14)	Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision! For the day of Yahweh is near, in the valley of decision.
(Joel 3:16)	Yahweh will roar from Zion, and thunder from Jerusalem; and the heavens and the earth will shake; but Yahweh will be a refuge to his people, and a stronghold to the children of Israel.
(Joel 3:18)	It will happen in that day, that the mountains will drop down sweet wine, the hills will flow with milk, all the brooks of Judah will flow with waters, and a fountain will flow out from Yahweh’s house, and will water the valley of Shittim.
(Joel 3:21)	I will cleanse their blood, that I have not cleansed: for Yahweh dwells in Zion.”
(Zech 10:6)	“I will strengthen the house of Judah, and I will save the house of Joseph, and I will bring them back; for I have mercy on them; and they will be as though I had not cast them off: for I am Yahweh their God, and I will hear them.
(Zech 10:8)	I will signal for them, and gather them; for I have redeemed them; and they will increase as they have increased.
(Zech 10:9)	I will sow them among the peoples; and they will remember me in far countries; and they will live with their children, and will return.
(Rom 11:30)	For as you in time past were disobedient to God, but now have obtained mercy by their disobedience,
(Rom 11:31)	even so these also have now been disobedient, that by the mercy shown to you they may also obtain mercy.
(Rom 11:2)	God didn’t reject his people, which he foreknew. Or don’t you know what the Scripture says about Elijah? How he pleads with God against Israel:
(Rom 11:12)	Now if their fall is the riches of the world, and their loss the riches of the Gentiles; how much more their fullness?
(Rom 11:15)	For if the rejection of them is the reconciling of the world, what would their acceptance be, but life from the dead?
(Rom 11:23)	They also, if they don’t continue in their unbelief, will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again.
(Rom 11:24)	For if you were cut out of that which is by nature a wild olive tree, and were grafted contrary to nature into a good olive tree, how much more will these, which are the natural branches, be grafted into their own olive tree?
(Rom 11:25)	For I don’t desire you to be ignorant, brothers, [11:25 The word for “brothers” here and where context allows may also be correctly translated “brothers and sisters” or “siblings.”] of this mystery, so that you won’t be wise in your own conceits, that a partial hardening has happened to Israel, until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in,
(Rom 11:29)	For the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable.
(Rom 11:32)	For God has bound all to disobedience, that he might have mercy on all.
(Rom 11:33)	Oh the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past tracing out!
(Jer 31:1)	“At that time,” says Yahweh, “I will be the God of all the families of Israel, and they will be my people.”
(Jer 31:4)	I will build you again, and you will be built, O virgin of Israel. You will again be adorned with your tambourines, and will go out in the dances of those who make merry.
(Jer 31:10)	“Hear Yahweh’s word, you nations, and declare it in the distant islands. Say, ‘He who scattered Israel will gather him, and keep him, as a shepherd does his flock.’
(Jer 31:17)	There is hope for your latter end,” says Yahweh. “Your children will come again to their own territory.
(Jer 31:31)	“Behold, the days come,” says Yahweh, “that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah:
(Jer 31:33)	“But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days,” says Yahweh: “I will put my law in their inward parts, and I will write it in their heart. I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
(Jer 31:38)	“Behold, the days come,” says Yahweh, “that the city will be built to Yahweh from the tower of Hananel to the gate of the corner.
(Zech 12:6)	In that day I will make the chieftains of Judah like a pan of fire among wood, and like a flaming torch among sheaves; and they will devour all the surrounding peoples, on the right hand and on the left; and Jerusalem will yet again dwell in their own place, even in Jerusalem.
(Zech 12:10)	I will pour on David’s house, and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the spirit of grace and of supplication; and they will look to me [12:10 After “me”, the Hebrew has the two letters “Aleph Tav” (the first and last letters of the Hebrew alphabet), not as a word, but as a grammatical marker.] whom they have pierced; and they shall mourn for him, as one mourns for his only son, and will grieve bitterly for him, as one grieves for his firstborn.
(Amos 9:14)	I will bring my people Israel back from captivity, and they will rebuild the ruined cities, and inhabit them; and they will plant vineyards, and drink wine from them. They shall also make gardens, and eat their fruit.
(Amos 9:15)	I will plant them on their land, and they will no more be plucked up out of their land which I have given them,” says Yahweh your God.
(Jer 30:9)	but they will serve Yahweh their God, and David their king, whom I will raise up to them.
(Jer 30:10)	Therefore don’t be afraid, O Jacob my servant, says Yahweh. Don’t be dismayed, Israel. For, behold, I will save you from afar, and save your offspring from the land of their captivity. Jacob will return, and will be quiet and at ease. No one will make him afraid.
＊	PART FOUR
＊	PROMISES OF CHRIST'S SECOND COMING -- THAT CHRIST WILL COME AGAIN
(1Cor 4:5)	Therefore judge nothing before the time, until the Lord comes, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and reveal the counsels of the hearts. Then each man will get his praise from God.
(2Tim 4:8)	From now on, the crown of righteousness is stored up for me, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will give to me on that day; and not to me only, but also to all those who have loved his appearing.
(1Thess 4:16)	For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel and with God’s trumpet. The dead in Christ will rise first,
(1Thess 4:17)	then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air. So we will be with the Lord forever.
(Matt 24:42)	Watch therefore, for you don’t know in what hour your Lord comes.
(John 14:28)	You heard how I told you, ‘I go away, and I come to you.’ If you loved me, you would have rejoiced, because I said ‘I am going to my Father;’ for the Father is greater than I.
(1Thess 1:10)	and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead: Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath to come.
(Zech 12:10)	I will pour on David’s house, and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the spirit of grace and of supplication; and they will look to me [12:10 After “me”, the Hebrew has the two letters “Aleph Tav” (the first and last letters of the Hebrew alphabet), not as a word, but as a grammatical marker.] whom they have pierced; and they shall mourn for him, as one mourns for his only son, and will grieve bitterly for him, as one grieves for his firstborn.
(Col 3:4)	When Christ, our life, is revealed, then you will also be revealed with him in glory.
(Job 19:25)	But as for me, I know that my Redeemer lives. In the end, he will stand upon the earth.
(Zech 14:4)	His feet will stand in that day on the Mount of Olives, which is before Jerusalem on the east; and the Mount of Olives will be split in two, from east to west, making a very great valley. Half of the mountain will move toward the north, and half of it toward the south.
(1Cor 11:26)	For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord’s death until he comes.
(2Thess 3:5)	May the Lord direct your hearts into God’s love, and into the perseverance of Christ.
(Matt 24:30)	and then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky. Then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky with power and great glory.
(1John 3:2)	Beloved, now we are children of God. It is not yet revealed what we will be; but we know that when he is revealed, we will be like him; for we will see him just as he is.
(1Pet 5:4)	When the chief Shepherd is revealed, you will receive the crown of glory that doesn’t fade away.
(Rev 1:7)	Behold, [1:7 “Behold”, from “ἰδοὺ”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.] he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him, including those who pierced him. All the tribes of the earth will mourn over him. Even so, Amen.
(Mark 14:62)	Jesus said, “I am. You will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of Power, and coming with the clouds of the sky.”
(2Thess 1:7)	and to give relief to you who are afflicted with us, when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire,
(John 14:3)	If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and will receive you to myself; that where I am, you may be there also.
(Matt 24:27)	For as the lightning flashes from the east, and is seen even to the west, so will the coming of the Son of Man be.
(Titus 2:13)	looking for the blessed hope and appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ,
(Acts 1:11)	who also said, “You men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into the sky? This Jesus, who was received up from you into the sky, will come back in the same way as you saw him going into the sky.”
(Matt 16:27)	For the Son of Man will come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then he will render to everyone according to his deeds.
(Matt 25:31)	“But when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then he will sit on the throne of his glory.
(Acts 3:20)	and that he may send Christ Jesus, who was ordained for you before,
(Acts 3:21)	whom heaven must receive until the times of restoration of all things, which God spoke long ago by the mouth of his holy prophets.
(Heb 9:28)	so Christ also, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, without sin, to those who are eagerly waiting for him for salvation.
(Rev 22:12)	“Behold, I come quickly. My reward is with me, to repay to each man according to his work.
(Rev 22:20)	He who testifies these things says, “Yes, I come quickly.” Amen! Yes, come, Lord Jesus.
(1Thess 3:13)	to the end he may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints.
(1Cor 1:7)	so that you come behind in no gift; waiting for the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ;
(1Cor 1:8)	who will also confirm you until the end, blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
(Dan 7:13)	“I saw in the night visions, and behold, there came with the clouds of the sky one like a son of man, and he came even to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him.
(Dan 7:14)	Dominion was given him, and glory, and a kingdom, that all the peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which will not pass away, and his kingdom that which will not be destroyed.
(Phil 3:20)	For our citizenship is in heaven, from where we also wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,
(Phil 3:21)	who will change the body of our humiliation to be conformed to the body of his glory, according to the working by which he is able even to subject all things to himself.
(2Pet 3:3)	knowing this first, that in the last days mockers will come, walking after their own lusts
(2Pet 3:4)	and saying, “Where is the promise of his coming? For, from the day that the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of the creation.”
(2Pet 3:10)	But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night; in which the heavens will pass away with a great noise, and the elements will be dissolved with fervent heat, and the earth and the works that are in it will be burned up.
＊	CONCLUSION
＊	THAT GOD WILL PERFORM ALL HIS PROMISES
(Deut 7:9)	Know therefore that Yahweh your God himself is God, the faithful God, who keeps covenant and loving kindness to a thousand generations with those who love him and keep his commandments,
(Ps 119:89)	LAMED Yahweh, your word is settled in heaven forever.
(Ps 119:90)	Your faithfulness is to all generations. You have established the earth, and it remains.
(Ps 119:160)	All of your words are truth. Every one of your righteous ordinances endures forever.
(Num 23:19)	God is not a man, that he should lie, nor a son of man, that he should repent. Has he said, and will he not do it? Or has he spoken, and will he not make it good?
(Heb 6:18)	that by two immutable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we may have a strong encouragement, who have fled for refuge to take hold of the hope set before us.
(Ps 18:30)	As for God, his way is perfect. Yahweh’s word is tried. He is a shield to all those who take refuge in him.
(Heb 10:23)	let’s hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering; for he who promised is faithful.
(Isa 25:1)	Yahweh, you are my God. I will exalt you! I will praise your name, for you have done wonderful things, things planned long ago, in complete faithfulness and truth.
(Ps 89:34)	I will not break my covenant, nor alter what my lips have uttered.
(Isa 46:11)	I call a ravenous bird from the east, the man of my counsel from a far country. Yes, I have spoken. I will also bring it to pass. I have planned. I will also do it.
(Ps 105:8)	He has remembered his covenant forever, the word which he commanded to a thousand generations,
(Josh 23:14)	“Behold, today I am going the way of all the earth. You know in all your hearts and in all your souls that not one thing has failed of all the good things which Yahweh your God spoke concerning you. All have happened to you. Not one thing has failed of it.
(1Kgs 8:56)	“Blessed be Yahweh, who has given rest to his people Israel, according to all that he promised. There has not failed one word of all his good promise, which he promised by Moses his servant.
(Isa 54:10)	For the mountains may depart, and the hills be removed; but my loving kindness will not depart from you, and my covenant of peace will not be removed,” says Yahweh who has mercy on you.
(2Tim 2:13)	If we are faithless, he remains faithful; for he can’t deny himself.”
(2Pet 3:9)	The Lord is not slow concerning his promise, as some count slowness; but he is patient with us, not wishing that anyone should perish, but that all should come to repentance.
(Rom 4:21)	and being fully assured that what he had promised, he was also able to perform.
(2Cor 1:20)	For however many are the promises of God, in him is the “Yes.” Therefore also through him is the “Amen”, to the glory of God through us.
(Titus 1:2)	in hope of eternal life, which God, who can’t lie, promised before time began;
(1Sam 15:29)	Also the Strength of Israel will not lie nor repent; for he is not a man, that he should repent.”
(Deut 4:31)	For Yahweh your God is a merciful God. He will not fail you nor destroy you, nor forget the covenant of your fathers which he swore to them.
(Ps 9:10)	Those who know your name will put their trust in you, for you, Yahweh, have not forsaken those who seek you.
(2Pet 1:4)	by which he has granted to us his precious and exceedingly great promises; that through these you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world by lust.
