＊	PRECIOUS BIBLE PROMISES
＊	PART ONE
＊	BLESSINGS PROMISED TO BELIEVERS
＊	CHAPTER 1
＊	PROMISES OF TEMPORAL BLESSINGS
＊	1. GENERAL PROMISES TO BELIEVERS
(Ps 84:11)	For the Lord God is our sovereign protector. The Lord bestows favor and honor; he withholds no good thing from those who have integrity.
(Ps 16:6)	It is as if I have been given fertile fields or received a beautiful tract of land.
(Eccl 8:12)	Even though a sinner might commit a hundred crimes and still live a long time, yet I know that it will go well with God-fearing people – for they stand in fear before him.
(Isa 3:10)	Tell the innocent it will go well with them, for they will be rewarded for what they have done.
(Ps 58:11)	Then observers will say, “Yes indeed, the godly are rewarded! Yes indeed, there is a God who judges in the earth!”
(Ps 5:12)	Certainly you reward the godly, Lord. Like a shield you protect them in your good favor.
(Ps 3:8)	The Lord delivers; you show favor to your people. (Selah)
(Prov 21:21)	The one who pursues righteousness and love finds life, bounty, and honor.
(Prov 10:6)	Blessings are on the head of the righteous, but the speech of the wicked conceals violence.
(Prov 10:24)	What the wicked fears will come on him; what the righteous desire will be granted.
(Prov 10:28)	The hope of the righteous is joy, but the expectation of the wicked perishes.
(Prov 11:18)	The wicked person earns deceitful wages, but the one who sows righteousness reaps a genuine reward.
(Prov 11:19)	True righteousness leads to life, but the one who pursues evil pursues it to his own death.
(Prov 11:28)	The one who trusts in his riches will fall, but the righteous will flourish like a green leaf.
(Prov 3:32)	for one who goes astray is an abomination to the Lord, but he reveals his intimate counsel to the upright.
(Prov 12:2)	A good person obtains favor from the Lord, but the Lord condemns a person with wicked schemes.
(Prov 13:9)	The light of the righteous shines brightly, but the lamp of the wicked goes out.
(Prov 13:21)	Calamity pursues sinners, but prosperity rewards the righteous.
(Ps 23:6)	Surely your goodness and faithfulness will pursue me all my days, and I will live in the Lord’s house for the rest of my life.
(Rom 8:32)	Indeed, he who did not spare his own Son, but gave him up for us all – how will he not also, along with him, freely give us all things?
(1Cor 3:21)	So then, no more boasting about mere mortals! For everything belongs to you,
(1Cor 3:22)	whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or the present or the future. Everything belongs to you,
(1Tim 4:8)	For “physical exercise has some value, but godliness is valuable in every way. It holds promise for the present life and for the life to come.”
＊	2. TEMPORAL BLESSINGS IN GENERAL
(Ps 23:1)	A psalm of David. The Lord is my shepherd, I lack nothing.
(Ps 23:5)	You prepare a feast before me in plain sight of my enemies. You refresh my head with oil; my cup is completely full.
(Ps 34:9)	Fear the Lord, you chosen people of his, for those who fear him lack nothing!
(Ps 34:10)	Even young lions sometimes lack food and are hungry, but those who seek the Lord lack no good thing.
(Matt 6:33)	But above all pursue his kingdom and righteousness, and all these things will be given to you as well.
(Phil 4:19)	And my God will supply your every need according to his glorious riches in Christ Jesus.
(1Tim 6:6)	Now godliness combined with contentment brings great profit.
(1Tim 6:17)	Command those who are rich in this world’s goods not to be haughty or to set their hope on riches, which are uncertain, but on God who richly provides us with all things for our enjoyment.
＊	3. FOOD AND RAIMENT
＊	FOOD
(Ps 37:3)	Trust in the Lord and do what is right! Settle in the land and maintain your integrity!
(Ps 111:5)	He gives food to his faithful followers; he always remembers his covenant.
(Ps 132:15)	I will abundantly supply what she needs; I will give her poor all the food they need.
(Ps 147:14)	He brings peace to your territory. He abundantly provides for you the best grain.
(Prov 13:25)	The righteous has enough food to satisfy his appetite, but the belly of the wicked will be empty.
(Matt 6:26)	Look at the birds in the sky: They do not sow, or reap, or gather into barns, yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Aren’t you more valuable than they are?
(Joel 2:26)	You will have plenty to eat, and your hunger will be fully satisfied; you will praise the name of the Lord your God, who has acted wondrously in your behalf. My people will never again be put to shame.
(Isa 65:13)	So this is what the Sovereign Lord says: “Look, my servants will eat, but you will be hungry! Look, my servants will drink, but you will be thirsty! Look, my servants will rejoice, but you will be humiliated!
＊	RAIMENT
(Matt 6:25)	“Therefore I tell you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat or drink, or about your body, what you will wear. Isn’t there more to life than food and more to the body than clothing?
(Matt 6:30)	And if this is how God clothes the wild grass, which is here today and tomorrow is tossed into the fire to heat the oven, won’t he clothe you even more, you people of little faith?
(Matt 6:31)	So then, don’t worry saying, ‘What will we eat?’ or ‘What will we drink?’ or ‘What will we wear?’
(Matt 6:32)	For the unconverted pursue these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them.
＊	4. LONG LIFE AND HEALTH
＊	LONG LIFE
(Deut 5:33)	Walk just as he has commanded you so that you may live, that it may go well with you, and that you may live long in the land you are going to possess.
(Deut 6:2)	and that you may so revere the Lord your God that you will keep all his statutes and commandments that I am giving you – you, your children, and your grandchildren – all your lives, to prolong your days.
(Job 5:26)	You will come to your grave in a full age, As stacks of grain are harvested in their season.
(Ps 34:12)	Do you want to really live? Would you love to live a long, happy life?
(Ps 34:14)	Turn away from evil and do what is right! Strive for peace and promote it!
(Ps 91:16)	I will satisfy him with long life, and will let him see my salvation.
(Prov 3:2)	for they will provide a long and full life, and well-being for you.
(Prov 3:16)	Long life is in her right hand; in her left hand are riches and honor.
(Prov 9:11)	For because of me your days will be many, and years will be added to your life.
＊	HEALTH
(Ps 103:3)	He is the one who forgives all your sins, who heals all your diseases,
(Ps 103:5)	who satisfies your life with good things, so your youth is renewed like an eagle’s.
(Prov 3:7)	Do not be wise in your own estimation; fear the Lord and turn away from evil.
(Prov 3:8)	This will bring healing to your body, and refreshment to your inner self.
(Prov 4:22)	for they are life to those who find them and healing to one’s entire body.
＊	5. SAFETY UNDER THE DIVINE PROTECTION
(Deut 33:12)	Of Benjamin he said: The beloved of the Lord will live safely by him; he protects him all the time, and the Lord places him on his chest.
(Prov 18:10)	The name of the Lord is like a strong tower; the righteous person runs to it and is set safely on high.
(Ps 16:8)	I constantly trust in the Lord; because he is at my right hand, I will not be shaken.
(Ps 112:7)	He does not fear bad news. He is confident; he trusts in the Lord.
(1Pet 3:13)	For who is going to harm you if you are devoted to what is good?
(Job 4:7)	Call to mind now: Who, being innocent, ever perished? And where were upright people ever destroyed?
(Job 11:18)	And you will be secure, because there is hope; you will be protected and will take your rest in safety.
(Job 5:23)	For you will have a pact with the stones of the field, and the wild animals will be at peace with you.
(Hos 2:18)	“At that time I will make a covenant for them with the wild animals, the birds of the air, and the creatures that crawl on the ground. I will abolish the warrior’s bow and sword – that is, every weapon of warfare – from the land, and I will allow them to live securely.”
(Ezek 34:25)	“‘I will make a covenant of peace with them and will rid the land of wild beasts, so that they can live securely in the wilderness and even sleep in the woods.
(Ezek 34:28)	They will no longer be prey for the nations and the wild beasts will not devour them. They will live securely and no one will make them afraid.
(Gen 9:2)	Every living creature of the earth and every bird of the sky will be terrified of you. Everything that creeps on the ground and all the fish of the sea are under your authority.
(Job 11:18)	And you will be secure, because there is hope; you will be protected and will take your rest in safety.
(Job 11:19)	You will lie down with no one to make you afraid, and many will seek your favor.
(Ps 4:8)	I will lie down and sleep peacefully, for you, Lord, make me safe and secure.
(Ps 127:2)	It is vain for you to rise early, come home late, and work so hard for your food. Yes, he provides for those whom he loves even when they sleep.
(Prov 3:24)	When you lie down you will not be filled with fear; when you lie down your sleep will be pleasant.
(1Sam 2:9)	He watches over his holy ones, but the wicked are made speechless in the darkness, for it is not by one’s own strength that one prevails.
(Ps 27:1)	By David. The Lord delivers and vindicates me! I fear no one! The Lord protects my life! I am afraid of no one!
(Ps 34:20)	He protects all his bones; not one of them is broken.
(Ps 91:1)	As for you, the one who lives in the shelter of the Most High, and resides in the protective shadow of the Sovereign One –
(Ps 91:2)	I say this about the Lord, my shelter and my stronghold, my God in whom I trust –
(Ps 91:4)	He will shelter you with his wings; you will find safety under his wings. His faithfulness is like a shield or a protective wall.
(Ps 91:10)	No harm will overtake you; no illness will come near your home.
(Ps 121:1)	A song of ascents. I look up toward the hills. From where does my help come?
(Ps 121:8)	The Lord will protect you in all you do, now and forevermore.
(Ps 124:8)	Our deliverer is the Lord, the Creator of heaven and earth.
(Ps 125:2)	As the mountains surround Jerusalem, so the Lord surrounds his people, now and forevermore.
(Prov 3:23)	Then you will walk on your way with security, and you will not stumble.
(Prov 1:33)	But the one who listens to me will live in security, and will be at ease from the dread of harm.
(Isa 4:5)	Then the Lord will create over all of Mount Zion and over its convocations a cloud and smoke by day and a bright flame of fire by night; indeed a canopy will accompany the Lord’s glorious presence.
(Isa 4:6)	By day it will be a shelter to provide shade from the heat, as well as safety and protection from the heavy downpour.
(Isa 33:16)	This is the person who will live in a secure place; he will find safety in the rocky, mountain strongholds; he will have food and a constant supply of water.
(Isa 43:2)	When you pass through the waters, I am with you; when you pass through the streams, they will not overwhelm you. When you walk through the fire, you will not be burned; the flames will not harm you.
(Isa 43:3)	For I am the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, your deliverer. I have handed over Egypt as a ransom price, Ethiopia and Seba in place of you.
(Isa 27:3)	I, the Lord, protect it; I water it regularly. I guard it night and day, so no one can harm it.
(Zech 2:5)	But I (the Lord says) will be a wall of fire surrounding Jerusalem and the source of glory in her midst.’”
＊	6. PROMISES OF PEACE
(Lev 26:6)	I will grant peace in the land so that you will lie down to sleep without anyone terrifying you. I will remove harmful animals from the land, and no sword of war will pass through your land.
(Ps 29:11)	The Lord gives his people strength; the Lord grants his people security.
(Ps 125:5)	As for those who are bent on traveling a sinful path, may the Lord remove them, along with those who behave wickedly! May Israel experience peace!
(Ps 119:165)	Those who love your law are completely secure; nothing causes them to stumble.
(Ps 147:14)	He brings peace to your territory. He abundantly provides for you the best grain.
(Isa 26:12)	O Lord, you make us secure, for even all we have accomplished, you have done for us.
(Isa 32:18)	My people will live in peaceful settlements, in secure homes, and in safe, quiet places.
＊	7. DIRECTION
(Ps 37:23)	The Lord grants success to the one whose behavior he finds commendable.
(Ps 48:14)	For God, our God, is our defender forever! He guides us!
(Ps 73:24)	You guide me by your wise advice, and then you will lead me to a position of honor.
(Prov 3:6)	Acknowledge him in all your ways, and he will make your paths straight.
(Prov 11:5)	The righteousness of the blameless will make their way smooth, but the wicked will fall through their own wickedness.
(Prov 16:9)	A person plans his course, but the Lord directs his steps.
(Isa 28:26)	His God instructs him; he teaches him the principles of agriculture.
(Isa 42:16)	I will lead the blind along an unfamiliar way; I will guide them down paths they have never traveled. I will turn the darkness in front of them into light, and level out the rough ground. This is what I will do for them. I will not abandon them.
＊	8. HONOR
(Deut 28:13)	The Lord will make you the head and not the tail, and you will always end up at the top and not at the bottom, if you obey his commandments which I am urging you today to be careful to do.
(Ps 112:6)	For he will never be shaken; others will always remember one who is just.
(Ps 112:9)	He generously gives to the needy; his integrity endures. He will be vindicated and honored.
(1Sam 2:30)	Therefore the Lord, the God of Israel, says, ‘I really did say that your house and your ancestor’s house would serve me forever.’ But now the Lord says, ‘May it never be! For I will honor those who honor me, but those who despise me will be cursed!
(Prov 22:4)	The reward for humility and fearing the Lord is riches and honor and life.
(Prov 3:16)	Long life is in her right hand; in her left hand are riches and honor.
(Prov 4:8)	Esteem her highly and she will exalt you; she will honor you if you embrace her.
(Prov 10:7)	The memory of the righteous is a blessing, but the reputation of the wicked will rot.
(Ps 91:14)	The Lord says, “Because he is devoted to me, I will deliver him; I will protect him because he is loyal to me.
(Ps 91:15)	When he calls out to me, I will answer him. I will be with him when he is in trouble; I will rescue him and bring him honor.
(John 12:26)	If anyone wants to serve me, he must follow me, and where I am, my servant will be too. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him.
(Rev 3:9)	Listen! I am going to make those people from the synagogue of Satan – who say they are Jews yet are not, but are lying – Look, I will make them come and bow down at your feet and acknowledge that I have loved you.
＊	9. SUCCESS AND PROSPERITY
(Ps 1:3)	He is like a tree planted by flowing streams; it yields its fruit at the proper time, and its leaves never fall off. He succeeds in everything he attempts.
(Ps 37:5)	Commit your future to the Lord! Trust in him, and he will act on your behalf.
(Ps 128:2)	You will eat what you worked so hard to grow. You will be blessed and secure.
(Ps 57:2)	I cry out for help to God Most High, to the God who vindicates me.
(Isa 65:21)	They will build houses and live in them; they will plant vineyards and eat their fruit.
(Isa 65:23)	They will not work in vain, or give birth to children that will experience disaster. For the Lord will bless their children and their descendants.
(Job 11:15)	For then you will lift up your face without blemish; you will be securely established and will not fear.
(Job 11:17)	And life will be brighter than the noonday; though there be darkness, it will be like the morning.
(Job 22:28)	Whatever you decide on a matter, it will be established for you, and light will shine on your ways.
＊	10. PLENTY AND RICHES
(Deut 11:14)	then he promises, “I will send rain for your land in its season, the autumn and the spring rains, so that you may gather in your grain, new wine, and olive oil.
(Deut 11:15)	I will provide pasture for your livestock and you will eat your fill.”
(Deut 28:12)	The Lord will open for you his good treasure house, the heavens, to give you rain for the land in its season and to bless all you do; you will lend to many nations but you will not borrow from any.
(Deut 30:9)	The Lord your God will make the labor of your hands abundantly successful and multiply your children, the offspring of your cattle, and the produce of your soil. For the Lord will once more rejoice over you to make you prosperous just as he rejoiced over your ancestors,
(Deut 28:11)	The Lord will greatly multiply your children, the offspring of your livestock, and the produce of your soil in the land which he promised your ancestors he would give you.
(Job 22:24)	and throw your gold in the dust – your gold of Ophir among the rocks in the ravines –
(Job 22:25)	then the Almighty himself will be your gold, and the choicest silver for you.
(Ps 107:38)	He blessed them so that they became very numerous. He would not allow their cattle to decrease in number.
(Ps 112:3)	His house contains wealth and riches; his integrity endures.
(Prov 3:16)	Long life is in her right hand; in her left hand are riches and honor.
(Prov 8:18)	Riches and honor are with me, long-lasting wealth and righteousness.
(Prov 8:19)	My fruit is better than the purest gold, and my harvest is better than choice silver.
(Prov 15:6)	In the house of the righteous is abundant wealth, but the income of the wicked will be ruined.
(Isa 30:23)	He will water the seed you plant in the ground, and the ground will produce crops in abundance. At that time your cattle will graze in wide pastures.
＊	11. OF CHILDREN
(Deut 7:13)	He will love and bless you, and make you numerous. He will bless you with many children, with the produce of your soil, your grain, your new wine, your oil, the offspring of your oxen, and the young of your flocks in the land which he promised your ancestors to give you.
(Deut 30:9)	The Lord your God will make the labor of your hands abundantly successful and multiply your children, the offspring of your cattle, and the produce of your soil. For the Lord will once more rejoice over you to make you prosperous just as he rejoiced over your ancestors,
(Job 5:25)	You will also know that your children will be numerous, and your descendants like the grass of the earth.
(Ps 127:3)	Yes, sons are a gift from the Lord, the fruit of the womb is a reward.
(Ps 127:5)	How blessed is the man who fills his quiver with them! They will not be put to shame when they confront enemies at the city gate.
(Ps 115:14)	May he increase your numbers, yours and your children’s!
＊	12. A BLESSING UPON ALL THE BELIEVER HAS
(Exod 23:25)	You must serve the Lord your God, and he will bless your bread and your water, and I will remove sickness from your midst.
(Deut 26:11)	You will celebrate all the good things that the Lord your God has given you and your family, along with the Levites and the resident foreigners among you.
(Deut 28:3)	You will be blessed in the city and blessed in the field.
(Deut 28:6)	You will be blessed when you come in and blessed when you go out.
(Deut 28:8)	The Lord will decree blessing for you with respect to your barns and in everything you do – yes, he will bless you in the land he is giving you.
(Ps 37:16)	The little bit that a godly man owns is better than the wealth of many evil men,
(Prov 10:22)	The blessing from the Lord makes a person rich, and he adds no sorrow to it.
(Prov 15:16)	Better is little with the fear of the Lord than great wealth and turmoil with it.
(Eccl 2:26)	For to the one who pleases him, God gives wisdom, knowledge, and joy, but to the sinner, he gives the task of amassing wealth – only to give it to the one who pleases God. This task of the wicked is futile – like chasing the wind!
(Eccl 3:13)	and also that everyone should eat and drink, and find enjoyment in all his toil, for these things are a gift from God.
(Eccl 5:19)	To every man whom God has given wealth, and possessions, he has also given him the ability to eat from them, to receive his reward and to find enjoyment in his toil; these things are the gift of God.
(Eccl 5:20)	For he does not think much about the fleeting days of his life because God keeps him preoccupied with the joy he derives from his activity.
＊	13. A BLESSING UPON THE CHILDREN OF BELIEVERS
(Deut 4:40)	Keep his statutes and commandments that I am setting forth today so that it may go well with you and your descendants and that you may enjoy longevity in the land that the Lord your God is about to give you as a permanent possession.”
(Deut 5:29)	If only it would really be their desire to fear me and obey all my commandments in the future, so that it may go well with them and their descendants forever.
(Prov 13:22)	A good person leaves an inheritance for his grandchildren, but the wealth of a sinner is stored up for the righteous.
(Prov 14:26)	In the fear of the Lord one has strong confidence, and it will be a refuge for his children.
(Prov 11:21)	Be assured that the evil person will not be unpunished, but the descendants of the righteous have escaped harm.
(Prov 20:7)	The righteous person behaves in integrity; blessed are his children after him.
(Ps 102:28)	The children of your servants will settle down here, and their descendants will live securely in your presence.”
(Ps 112:2)	His descendants will be powerful on the earth; the godly will be blessed.
(Ps 25:13)	They experience his favor; their descendants inherit the land.
(Ps 37:25)	I was once young, now I am old. I have never seen a godly man abandoned, or his children forced to search for food.
(Ps 37:26)	All day long he shows compassion and lends to others, and his children are blessed.
(Ps 147:13)	For he makes the bars of your gates strong. He blesses your children within you.
(Jer 32:39)	I will give them a single-minded purpose to live in a way that always shows respect for me. They will want to do that for their own good and the good of the children who descend from them.
＊	14. A BLESSING UPON THE FAMILIES OF THE GOOD
(Job 5:24)	And you will know that your home will be secure, and when you inspect your domains, you will not be missing anything.
(Job 8:6)	if you become pure and upright, even now he will rouse himself for you, and will restore your righteous home.
(Job 8:7)	Your beginning will seem so small, since your future will flourish.
(Ps 128:3)	Your wife will be like a fruitful vine in the inner rooms of your house; your children will be like olive branches, as they sit all around your table.
(Ps 128:6)	and that you might see your grandchildren. May Israel experience peace!
(Prov 3:33)	The Lord’s curse is on the household of the wicked, but he blesses the home of the righteous.
(Prov 12:7)	The wicked are overthrown and perish, but the righteous household will stand.
(Prov 14:11)	The household of the wicked will be destroyed, but the tent of the upright will flourish.
＊	Chapter 2
＊	PROMISES RELATING TO THE TROUBLES OF LIFE
＊	1. IN GENERAL
＊	PRESERVATION FROM TROUBLE
(Ps 32:6)	For this reason every one of your faithful followers should pray to you while there is a window of opportunity. Certainly when the surging water rises, it will not reach them.
(Ps 32:7)	You are my hiding place; you protect me from distress. You surround me with shouts of joy from those celebrating deliverance. (Selah)
(Job 5:19)	He will deliver you from six calamities; yes, in seven no evil will touch you.
(Ps 31:23)	Love the Lord, all you faithful followers of his! The Lord protects those who have integrity, but he pays back in full the one who acts arrogantly.
(Ps 91:10)	No harm will overtake you; no illness will come near your home.
(Prov 12:21)	No harm will be directed at the righteous, but the wicked are filled with calamity.
(Prov 15:19)	The way of the sluggard is like a hedge of thorns, but the path of the upright is like a highway.
＊	DELIVERANCE FROM TROUBLE
(Job 8:20)	“Surely, God does not reject a blameless man, nor does he grasp the hand of the evildoers.
(Job 8:21)	He will yet fill your mouth with laughter, and your lips with gladness.
(Job 11:16)	For you will forget your trouble; you will remember it like water that has flowed away.
(Job 36:16)	And surely, he drew you from the mouth of distress, to a wide place, unrestricted, and to the comfort of your table filled with rich food.
(Ps 30:5)	For his anger lasts only a brief moment, and his good favor restores one’s life. One may experience sorrow during the night, but joy arrives in the morning.
(Ps 34:19)	The godly face many dangers, but the Lord saves them from each one of them.
(Ps 42:11)	Why are you depressed, O my soul? Why are you upset? Wait for God! For I will again give thanks to my God for his saving intervention.
(Ps 68:13)	When you lie down among the sheepfolds, the wings of the dove are covered with silver and with glittering gold.
(Ps 71:20)	Though you have allowed me to experience much trouble and distress, revive me once again! Bring me up once again from the depths of the earth!
(Ps 18:27)	For you deliver oppressed people, but you bring down those who have a proud look.
(Ps 18:28)	Indeed, you light my lamp, Lord. My God illuminates the darkness around me.
(Ps 146:8)	The Lord gives sight to the blind. The Lord lifts up all who are bent over. The Lord loves the godly.
(Ps 107:19)	They cried out to the Lord in their distress; he delivered them from their troubles.
(Ps 126:5)	Those who shed tears as they plant will shout for joy when they reap the harvest.
(Ps 126:6)	The one who weeps as he walks along, carrying his bag of seed, will certainly come in with a shout of joy, carrying his sheaves of grain.
(Prov 11:8)	A righteous person was delivered out of trouble, then a wicked person took his place.
(Prov 12:13)	The evil person is ensnared by the transgression of his speech, but the righteous person escapes out of trouble.
(Prov 24:16)	Indeed a righteous person will fall seven times, and then get up again, but the guilty will collapse in calamity.
(Jer 29:11)	For I know what I have planned for you,’ says the Lord. ‘I have plans to prosper you, not to harm you. I have plans to give you a future filled with hope.
(Jer 31:12)	They will come and shout for joy on Mount Zion. They will be radiant with joy over the good things the Lord provides, the grain, the fresh wine, the olive oil, the young sheep and calves he has given to them. They will be like a well-watered garden and will not grow faint or weary any more.
(Jer 31:13)	The Lord says, “At that time young women will dance and be glad. Young men and old men will rejoice. I will turn their grief into gladness. I will give them comfort and joy in place of their sorrow.
(Hos 6:1)	“Come on! Let’s return to the Lord! He himself has torn us to pieces, but he will heal us! He has injured us, but he will bandage our wounds!
＊	SUPPORT IN TROUBLE
(Ps 9:9)	Consequently the Lord provides safety for the oppressed; he provides safety in times of trouble.
(Ps 22:24)	For he did not despise or detest the suffering of the oppressed; he did not ignore him; when he cried out to him, he responded.
(Ps 27:10)	Even if my father and mother abandoned me, the Lord would take me in.
(Ps 27:14)	Rely on the Lord! Be strong and confident! Rely on the Lord!
(Ps 37:24)	Even if he trips, he will not fall headlong, for the Lord holds his hand.
(Ps 37:39)	But the Lord delivers the godly; he protects them in times of trouble.
(Ps 18:2)	The Lord is my high ridge, my stronghold, my deliverer. My God is my rocky summit where I take shelter, my shield, the horn that saves me, and my refuge.
(Ps 46:1)	For the music director; by the Korahites; according to the alamoth style; a song. God is our strong refuge; he is truly our helper in times of trouble.
(Ps 46:3)	when its waves crash and foam, and the mountains shake before the surging sea. (Selah)
(Ps 55:22)	Throw your burden upon the Lord, and he will sustain you. He will never allow the godly to be shaken.
(Ps 31:7)	I will be happy and rejoice in your faithfulness, because you notice my pain and you are aware of how distressed I am.
(Exod 3:7)	The Lord said, “I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt. I have heard their cry because of their taskmasters, for I know their sorrows.
(Ps 41:1)	For the music director; a psalm of David. How blessed is the one who treats the poor properly! When trouble comes, may the Lord deliver him.
(Ps 71:3)	Be my protector and refuge, a stronghold where I can be safe! For you are my high ridge and my stronghold.
(Ps 112:4)	In the darkness a light shines for the godly, for each one who is merciful, compassionate, and just.
(Ps 136:23)	to the one who remembered us when we were down, for his loyal love endures,
(Ps 138:7)	Even when I must walk in the midst of danger, you revive me. You oppose my angry enemies, and your right hand delivers me.
(Ps 73:26)	My flesh and my heart may grow weak, but God always protects my heart and gives me stability.
(Ps 145:14)	The Lord supports all who fall, and lifts up all who are bent over.
(Isa 25:4)	For you are a protector for the poor, a protector for the needy in their distress, a shelter from the rainstorm, a shade from the heat. Though the breath of tyrants is like a winter rainstorm,
(Isa 27:8)	When you summon her for divorce, you prosecute her; he drives her away with his strong wind in the day of the east wind.
(Job 34:23)	For he does not still consider a person, that he should come before God in judgment.
(Isa 50:10)	Who among you fears the Lord? Who obeys his servant? Whoever walks in deep darkness, without light, should trust in the name of the Lord and rely on his God.
(Lam 3:31)	For the Lord will not reject us forever.
(Lam 3:33)	For he is not predisposed to afflict or to grieve people.
(Jer 16:19)	Then I said, “Lord, you give me strength and protect me. You are the one I can run to for safety when I am in trouble. Nations from all over the earth will come to you and say, ‘Our ancestors had nothing but false gods – worthless idols that could not help them at all.
(Jer 30:11)	For I, the Lord, affirm that I will be with you and will rescue you. I will completely destroy all the nations where I scattered you. But I will not completely destroy you. I will indeed discipline you, but only in due measure. I will not allow you to go entirely unpunished.”
(Mic 7:8)	My enemies, do not gloat over me! Though I have fallen, I will get up. Though I sit in darkness, the Lord will be my light.
(Mic 7:9)	I must endure the Lord’s fury, for I have sinned against him. But then he will defend my cause, and accomplish justice on my behalf. He will lead me out into the light; I will witness his deliverance.
(Nah 1:7)	The Lord is good – indeed, he is a fortress in time of distress, and he protects those who seek refuge in him.
(Matt 11:28)	Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest.
(John 16:33)	I have told you these things so that in me you may have peace. In the world you have trouble and suffering, but take courage – I have conquered the world.”
(2Cor 1:5)	For just as the sufferings of Christ overflow toward us, so also our comfort through Christ overflows to you.
(2Cor 4:8)	We are experiencing trouble on every side, but are not crushed; we are perplexed, but not driven to despair;
(2Cor 4:9)	we are persecuted, but not abandoned; we are knocked down, but not destroyed,
＊	2. PROMISES RELATING TO SICKNESS, OLD AGE, ETC.
＊	DELIVERANCE FROM SICKNESS
(Exod 23:25)	You must serve the Lord your God, and he will bless your bread and your water, and I will remove sickness from your midst.
(Exod 15:26)	He said, “If you will diligently obey the Lord your God, and do what is right in his sight, and pay attention to his commandments, and keep all his statutes, then all the diseases that I brought on the Egyptians I will not bring on you, for I, the Lord, am your healer.”
(Job 33:24)	and if God is gracious to him and says, ‘Spare him from going down to the place of corruption, I have found a ransom for him,’
(Job 33:26)	He entreats God, and God delights in him, he sees God’s face with rejoicing, and God restores to him his righteousness.
(Job 33:28)	He redeemed my life from going down to the place of corruption, and my life sees the light!’
(Ps 91:3)	he will certainly rescue you from the snare of the hunter and from the destructive plague.
(Ps 91:5)	You need not fear the terrors of the night, the arrow that flies by day,
(Ps 91:6)	the plague that stalks in the darkness, or the disease that ravages at noon.
(Ps 103:3)	He is the one who forgives all your sins, who heals all your diseases,
(Deut 7:15)	The Lord will protect you from all sickness, and you will not experience any of the terrible diseases that you knew in Egypt; instead he will inflict them on all those who hate you.
(Jer 33:6)	But I will most surely heal the wounds of this city and restore it and its people to health. I will show them abundant peace and security.
＊	SUPPORT IN SICKNESS
(Ps 41:3)	The Lord supports him on his sickbed; you have healed him from his illness.
(Ps 116:6)	The Lord protects the untrained; I was in serious trouble and he delivered me.
(1Tim 2:15)	But she will be delivered through childbearing, if she continues in faith and love and holiness with self-control.
(Deut 7:13)	He will love and bless you, and make you numerous. He will bless you with many children, with the produce of your soil, your grain, your new wine, your oil, the offspring of your oxen, and the young of your flocks in the land which he promised your ancestors to give you.
(Gen 49:25)	because of the God of your father, who will help you, because of the Sovereign God, who will bless you with blessings from the sky above, blessings from the deep that lies below, and blessings of the breasts and womb.
＊	IN OLD AGE
(Ps 71:9)	Do not reject me in my old age! When my strength fails, do not abandon me!
(Isa 46:4)	Even when you are old, I will take care of you, even when you have gray hair, I will carry you. I made you and I will support you; I will carry you and rescue you.
(Prov 16:31)	Gray hair is like a crown of glory; it is attained in the path of righteousness.
＊	3. DELIVERANCE FROM FAMINE AND WANT
(Job 5:20)	In time of famine he will redeem you from death, and in time of war from the power of the sword.
(Job 5:22)	You will laugh at destruction and famine and need not be afraid of the beasts of the earth.
(Ps 33:18)	Look, the Lord takes notice of his loyal followers, those who wait for him to demonstrate his faithfulness
(Ps 33:19)	by saving their lives from death and sustaining them during times of famine.
(Ps 37:19)	They will not be ashamed when hard times come; when famine comes they will have enough to eat.
(Ps 146:7)	vindicates the oppressed, and gives food to the hungry. The Lord releases the imprisoned.
(Isa 41:17)	The oppressed and the poor look for water, but there is none; their tongues are parched from thirst. I, the Lord, will respond to their prayers; I, the God of Israel, will not abandon them.
(Ezek 36:29)	I will save you from all your uncleanness. I will call for the grain and multiply it; I will not bring a famine on you.
(Ezek 36:30)	I will multiply the fruit of the trees and the produce of the fields, so that you will never again suffer the disgrace of famine among the nations.
(Zech 10:1)	Ask the Lord for rain in the season of the late spring rains – the Lord who causes thunderstorms – and he will give everyone showers of rain and green growth in the field.
(Ps 107:9)	For he has satisfied those who thirst, and those who hunger he has filled with food.
(Hab 3:17)	When the fig tree does not bud, and there are no grapes on the vines; when the olive trees do not produce, and the fields yield no crops; when the sheep disappear from the pen, and there are no cattle in the stalls,
(Hab 3:18)	I will rejoice because of the Lord; I will be happy because of the God who delivers me!
(Matt 4:4)	But he answered, “It is written, ‘Man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God.’”
＊	4. DELIVERANCE FROM WAR AND ENEMIES
＊	FROM WAR
(Deut 20:4)	for the Lord your God goes with you to fight on your behalf against your enemies to give you victory.”
(Deut 23:14)	For the Lord your God walks about in the middle of your camp to deliver you and defeat your enemies for you. Therefore your camp should be holy, so that he does not see anything indecent among you and turn away from you.
(Job 5:20)	In time of famine he will redeem you from death, and in time of war from the power of the sword.
(Ps 60:12)	By God’s power we will conquer; he will trample down our enemies.
(2Chr 13:12)	Now look, God is with us as our leader. His priests are ready to blow the trumpets to signal the attack against you. You Israelites, don’t fight against the Lord God of your ancestors, for you will not win!”
(Prov 3:25)	Do not be afraid of sudden disaster, or when destruction overtakes the wicked;
(Prov 3:26)	for the Lord will be the source of your confidence, and he will guard your foot from being caught in a trap.
(Isa 41:11)	Look, all who were angry at you will be ashamed and humiliated; your adversaries will be reduced to nothing and perish.
(Isa 41:12)	When you will look for your opponents, you will not find them; your enemies will be reduced to absolutely nothing.
(Jer 39:17)	But I will rescue you when it happens. I, the Lord, affirm it! You will not be handed over to those whom you fear.
(Jer 39:18)	I will certainly save you. You will not fall victim to violence. You will escape with your life because you trust in me. I, the Lord, affirm it!”’”
＊	FROM ENEMIES
(2Kgs 6:16)	He replied, “Don’t be afraid, for our side outnumbers them.”
(2Chr 14:11)	Asa prayed to the Lord his God: “O Lord, there is no one but you who can help the weak when they are vastly outnumbered. Help us, O Lord our God, for we rely on you and have marched on your behalf against this huge army. O Lord, you are our God; don’t let men prevail against you!”
(2Kgs 17:39)	Instead you must worship the Lord your God; then he will rescue you from the power of all your enemies.”
(Ps 17:7)	Accomplish awesome, faithful deeds, you who powerfully deliver those who look to you for protection from their enemies.
(Ps 27:5)	He will surely give me shelter in the day of danger; he will hide me in his home; he will place me on an inaccessible rocky summit.
(Ps 27:6)	Now I will triumph over my enemies who surround me! I will offer sacrifices in his dwelling place and shout for joy! I will sing praises to the Lord!
(Ps 37:32)	Evil men set an ambush for the godly and try to kill them.
(Ps 37:33)	But the Lord does not surrender the godly, or allow them to be condemned in a court of law.
(Ps 37:40)	The Lord helps them and rescues them; he rescues them from evil men and delivers them, for they seek his protection.
(Ps 97:10)	You who love the Lord, hate evil! He protects the lives of his faithful followers; he delivers them from the power of the wicked.
(Ps 112:8)	His resolve is firm; he will not succumb to fear before he looks in triumph on his enemies.
(Ps 118:7)	The Lord is on my side as my helper. I look in triumph on those who hate me.
(Ps 125:3)	Indeed, the scepter of a wicked king will not settle upon the allotted land of the godly. Otherwise the godly might do what is wrong.
(Job 8:22)	Those who hate you will be clothed with shame, and the tent of the wicked will be no more.”
(Prov 16:7)	When a person’s ways are pleasing to the Lord, he even reconciles his enemies to himself.
(Isa 25:5)	like heat in a dry land, you humble the boasting foreigners. Just as the shadow of a cloud causes the heat to subside, so he causes the song of tyrants to cease.
(Isa 54:15)	If anyone dares to challenge you, it will not be my doing! Whoever tries to challenge you will be defeated.
(Isa 54:17)	No weapon forged to be used against you will succeed; you will refute everyone who tries to accuse you. This is what the Lord will do for his servants – I will vindicate them,” says the Lord.
(Deut 28:7)	The Lord will cause your enemies who attack you to be struck down before you; they will attack you from one direction but flee from you in seven different directions.
(Luke 18:7)	Won’t God give justice to his chosen ones, who cry out to him day and night? Will he delay long to help them?
(Luke 18:8)	I tell you, he will give them justice speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on earth?”
(Acts 18:10)	because I am with you, and no one will assault you to harm you, because I have many people in this city.”
(Heb 13:6)	So we can say with confidence, “The Lord is my helper, and I will not be afraid. What can people do to me?”
(Ps 118:6)	The Lord is on my side, I am not afraid! What can people do to me?
(Luke 1:71)	that we should be saved from our enemies, and from the hand of all who hate us.
(Luke 1:74)	that we, being rescued from the hand of our enemies, may serve him without fear,
(Luke 1:75)	in holiness and righteousness before him for as long as we live.
＊	5. FROM OPPRESSION AND INJUSTICE
(Exod 22:26)	If you do take the garment of your neighbor in pledge, you must return it to him by the time the sun goes down,
(Exod 22:27)	for it is his only covering – it is his garment for his body. What else can he sleep in? And when he cries out to me, I will hear, for I am gracious.
(Ps 12:5)	“Because of the violence done to the oppressed, because of the painful cries of the needy, I will spring into action,” says the Lord. “I will provide the safety they so desperately desire.”
(Ps 35:10)	With all my strength I will say, “O Lord, who can compare to you? You rescue the oppressed from those who try to overpower them; the oppressed and needy from those who try to rob them.”
(Ps 72:4)	He will defend the oppressed among the people; he will deliver the children of the poor and crush the oppressor.
(Ps 72:14)	From harm and violence he will defend them; he will value their lives.
(Ps 109:31)	because he stands at the right hand of the needy, to deliver him from those who threaten his life.
(Ps 146:7)	vindicates the oppressed, and gives food to the hungry. The Lord releases the imprisoned.
(Eccl 5:8)	If you see the extortion of the poor, or the perversion of justice and fairness in the government, do not be astonished by the matter. For the high official is watched by a higher official, and there are higher ones over them!
(Isa 54:14)	You will be reestablished when I vindicate you. You will not experience oppression; indeed, you will not be afraid. You will not be terrified, for nothing frightening will come near you.
＊	6. FROM SLANDER AND REPROACH
＊	SLANDER
(Job 5:21)	You will be protected from malicious gossip, and will not be afraid of the destruction when it comes.
(Job 11:15)	For then you will lift up your face without blemish; you will be securely established and will not fear.
(Ps 37:6)	He will vindicate you in broad daylight, and publicly defend your just cause.
(Ps 31:20)	You hide them with you, where they are safe from the attacks of men; you conceal them in a shelter, where they are safe from slanderous attacks.
(Ps 57:3)	May he send help from heaven and deliver me from my enemies who hurl insults! (Selah) May God send his loyal love and faithfulness!
＊	REPROACH
(Isa 51:7)	Listen to me, you who know what is right, you people who are aware of my law! Don’t be afraid of the insults of men; don’t be discouraged because of their abuse!
(Isa 51:8)	For a moth will eat away at them like clothes; a clothes moth will devour them like wool. But the vindication I provide will be permanent; the deliverance I give will last.”
(Matt 5:11)	“Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and say all kinds of evil things about you falsely on account of me.
(Matt 5:12)	Rejoice and be glad, because your reward is great in heaven, for they persecuted the prophets before you in the same way.
(Heb 11:26)	He regarded abuse suffered for Christ to be greater wealth than the treasures of Egypt, for his eyes were fixed on the reward.
(1Pet 4:14)	If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory, who is the Spirit of God, rests on you.
＊	7. FROM WITCHCRAFT
(Num 23:23)	For there is no spell against Jacob, nor is there any divination against Israel. At this time it must be said of Jacob and of Israel, ‘Look at what God has done!’
＊	8. PROMISES TO THE STRANGER AND THE EXILE
(Deut 10:18)	who justly treats the orphan and widow, and who loves resident foreigners, giving them food and clothing.
(Ps 146:9)	The Lord protects the resident foreigner; he lifts up the fatherless and the widow, but he opposes the wicked.
(Ezek 11:16)	“Therefore say: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: Although I have removed them far away among the nations and have dispersed them among the countries, I have been a little sanctuary for them among the lands where they have gone.’
＊	9. TO THE POOR AND HELPLESS
(Ps 9:18)	for the needy are not permanently ignored, the hopes of the oppressed are not forever dashed.
(Ps 68:10)	for you live among them. You sustain the oppressed with your good blessings, O God.
(Ps 69:33)	For the Lord listens to the needy; he does not despise his captive people.
(Ps 132:15)	I will abundantly supply what she needs; I will give her poor all the food they need.
(Isa 14:30)	The poor will graze in my pastures; the needy will rest securely. But I will kill your root by famine; it will put to death all your survivors.
(Ps 72:2)	Then he will judge your people fairly, and your oppressed ones equitably.
(Ps 72:12)	For he will rescue the needy when they cry out for help, and the oppressed who have no defender.
(Ps 72:13)	He will take pity on the poor and needy; the lives of the needy he will save.
(Ps 102:17)	when he responds to the prayer of the destitute, and does not reject their request.
(Ps 107:41)	Yet he protected the needy from oppression, and cared for his families like a flock of sheep.
(Ps 113:7)	He raises the poor from the dirt, and lifts up the needy from the garbage pile,
(Jer 20:13)	Sing to the Lord! Praise the Lord! For he rescues the oppressed from the clutches of evildoers.
(Job 5:15)	So he saves from the sword that comes from their mouth, even the poor from the hand of the powerful.
(Job 5:16)	Thus the poor have hope, and iniquity shuts its mouth.
(Job 36:15)	He delivers the afflicted by their afflictions, he reveals himself to them by their suffering.
(Jas 1:9)	Now the believer of humble means should take pride in his high position.
(Jas 2:5)	Listen, my dear brothers and sisters! Did not God choose the poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom that he promised to those who love him?
(Luke 16:25)	But Abraham said, ‘Child, remember that in your lifetime you received your good things and Lazarus likewise bad things, but now he is comforted here and you are in anguish.
＊	10. TO THE FATHERLESS AND WIDOW
(Exod 22:22)	“You must not afflict any widow or orphan.
(Exod 22:24)	and my anger will burn and I will kill you with the sword, and your wives will be widows and your children will be fatherless.
(Deut 10:18)	who justly treats the orphan and widow, and who loves resident foreigners, giving them food and clothing.
(Ps 10:14)	You have taken notice, for you always see one who inflicts pain and suffering. The unfortunate victim entrusts his cause to you; you deliver the fatherless.
(Ps 10:18)	You defend the fatherless and oppressed, so that mere mortals may no longer terrorize them.
(Ps 68:5)	He is a father to the fatherless and an advocate for widows. God rules from his holy dwelling place.
(Ps 146:9)	The Lord protects the resident foreigner; he lifts up the fatherless and the widow, but he opposes the wicked.
(Prov 15:25)	The Lord tears down the house of the proud, but he maintains the boundaries of the widow.
(Prov 23:10)	Do not move an ancient boundary stone, or take over the fields of the fatherless,
(Prov 23:11)	for their Protector is strong; he will plead their case against you.
(Jer 49:11)	Leave your orphans behind and I will keep them alive. Your widows too can depend on me.”
(Hos 14:3)	Assyria cannot save us; we will not ride warhorses. We will never again say, ‘Our gods’ to what our own hands have made. For only you will show compassion to Orphan Israel!”
＊	11. TO THE CHILDLESS
(Ps 68:6)	God settles those who have been deserted in their own homes; he frees prisoners and grants them prosperity. But sinful rebels live in the desert.
(Ps 113:9)	He makes the barren woman of the family a happy mother of children. Praise the Lord!
(Isa 56:4)	For this is what the Lord says: “For the eunuchs who observe my Sabbaths and choose what pleases me and are faithful to my covenant,
(Isa 56:5)	I will set up within my temple and my walls a monument that will be better than sons and daughters. I will set up a permanent monument for them that will remain.
＊	12. TO THE PRISONER AND CAPTIVE
(Ps 68:6)	God settles those who have been deserted in their own homes; he frees prisoners and grants them prosperity. But sinful rebels live in the desert.
(Ps 146:7)	vindicates the oppressed, and gives food to the hungry. The Lord releases the imprisoned.
(Deut 30:4)	Even if your exiles are in the most distant land, from there the Lord your God will gather you and bring you back.
(Ps 69:33)	For the Lord listens to the needy; he does not despise his captive people.
(Ps 107:14)	He brought them out of the utter darkness, and tore off their shackles.
(Isa 51:14)	The one who suffers will soon be released; he will not die in prison, he will not go hungry.
(Isa 49:25)	Indeed, ” says the Lord, “captives will be taken from a warrior; spoils will be rescued from a conqueror. I will oppose your adversary and I will rescue your children.
(Jer 15:11)	The Lord said, “Jerusalem, I will surely send you away for your own good. I will surely bring the enemy upon you in a time of trouble and distress.
＊	13. DELIVERANCE FROM DEATH
(Job 33:28)	He redeemed my life from going down to the place of corruption, and my life sees the light!’
(Ps 68:20)	Our God is a God who delivers; the Lord, the sovereign Lord, can rescue from death.
(Ps 66:8)	Praise our God, you nations! Loudly proclaim his praise!
(Ps 66:9)	He preserves our lives and does not allow our feet to slip.
(Ps 102:19)	For he will look down from his sanctuary above; from heaven the Lord will look toward earth,
(Ps 102:20)	in order to hear the painful cries of the prisoners, and to set free those condemned to die,
(Ps 107:18)	They lost their appetite for all food, and they drew near the gates of death.
(Ps 107:19)	They cried out to the Lord in their distress; he delivered them from their troubles.
(Ps 116:15)	The Lord values the lives of his faithful followers.
(Ps 91:7)	Though a thousand may fall beside you, and a multitude on your right side, it will not reach you.
(Ps 9:13)	when they prayed: “Have mercy on me, Lord! See how I am oppressed by those who hate me, O one who can snatch me away from the gates of death!
(1Sam 2:6)	The Lord both kills and gives life; he brings down to the grave and raises up.
(Deut 32:39)	“See now that I, indeed I, am he!” says the Lord, “and there is no other god besides me. I kill and give life, I smash and I heal, and none can resist my power.
＊	Chapter 3
＊	PROMISES OF SPIRITUAL BLESSINGS IN THIS LIFE
＊	1. IN GENERAL
(Ps 25:10)	The Lord always proves faithful and reliable to those who follow the demands of his covenant.
(Ps 25:14)	The Lord’s loyal followers receive his guidance, and he reveals his covenantal demands to them.
(Eph 1:3)	Blessed is the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly realms in Christ.
(Eph 1:4)	For he chose us in Christ before the foundation of the world that we should be holy and blameless before him in love.
(Eph 1:7)	In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our offenses, according to the riches of his grace
(Eph 1:8)	that he lavished on us in all wisdom and insight.
(2Pet 1:3)	I can pray this because his divine power has bestowed on us everything necessary for life and godliness through the rich knowledge of the one who called us by his own glory and excellence.
(2Pet 1:4)	Through these things he has bestowed on us his precious and most magnificent promises, so that by means of what was promised you may become partakers of the divine nature, after escaping the worldly corruption that is produced by evil desire.
(Gal 6:16)	And all who will behave in accordance with this rule, peace and mercy be on them, and on the Israel of God.
(Rom 8:30)	And those he predestined, he also called; and those he called, he also justified; and those he justified, he also glorified.
＊	2. OF JUSTIFICATION, PARDON, AND RECONCILIATION
＊	JUSTIFICATION
(Num 23:21)	He has not looked on iniquity in Jacob, nor has he seen trouble in Israel. The Lord their God is with them; his acclamation as king is among them.
(Isa 45:25)	All the descendants of Israel will be vindicated by the Lord and will boast in him.
(Isa 53:11)	Having suffered, he will reflect on his work, he will be satisfied when he understands what he has done. “My servant will acquit many, for he carried their sins.
(Ezek 36:25)	I will sprinkle you with pure water and you will be clean from all your impurities. I will purify you from all your idols.
(Rom 3:24)	But they are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus.
(Rom 8:1)	There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus.
(Rom 8:33)	Who will bring any charge against God’s elect? It is God who justifies.
(Rom 8:34)	Who is the one who will condemn? Christ is the one who died (and more than that, he was raised), who is at the right hand of God, and who also is interceding for us.
(Titus 3:7)	And so, since we have been justified by his grace, we become heirs with the confident expectation of eternal life.”
(2Cor 5:21)	God made the one who did not know sin to be sin for us, so that in him we would become the righteousness of God.
(Acts 13:39)	and by this one everyone who believes is justified from everything from which the law of Moses could not justify you.
(Rom 5:1)	Therefore, since we have been declared righteous by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ,
(Rom 5:9)	Much more then, because we have now been declared righteous by his blood, we will be saved through him from God’s wrath.
(Rom 5:18)	Consequently, just as condemnation for all people came through one transgression, so too through the one righteous act came righteousness leading to life for all people.
(Rom 5:19)	For just as through the disobedience of the one man many were made sinners, so also through the obedience of one man many will be made righteous.
＊	PARDON OF SIN
(Exod 34:7)	keeping loyal love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. But he by no means leaves the guilty unpunished, responding to the transgression of fathers by dealing with children and children’s children, to the third and fourth generation.”
(Ps 65:3)	Our record of sins overwhelms me, but you forgive our acts of rebellion.
(Isa 43:25)	I, I am the one who blots out your rebellious deeds for my sake; your sins I do not remember.
(Ps 130:4)	But you are willing to forgive, so that you might be honored.
(Ps 130:8)	He will deliver Israel from all their sins.
(Isa 33:24)	No resident of Zion will say, “I am ill”; the people who live there will have their sin forgiven.
(Isa 44:22)	I remove the guilt of your rebellious deeds as if they were a cloud, the guilt of your sins as if they were a cloud. Come back to me, for I protect you.”
(Ps 103:9)	He does not always accuse, and does not stay angry.
(Ps 103:12)	As far as the eastern horizon is from the west, so he removes the guilt of our rebellious actions from us.
(Hos 11:8)	How can I give you up, O Ephraim? How can I surrender you, O Israel? How can I treat you like Admah? How can I make you like Zeboiim? I have had a change of heart! All my tender compassions are aroused!
(Hos 11:9)	I cannot carry out my fierce anger! I cannot totally destroy Ephraim! Because I am God, and not man – the Holy One among you – I will not come in wrath!
(Mic 7:18)	Who is a God like you? Who forgives sin and pardons the rebellion of those who remain among his people? Who does not stay angry forever, but delights in showing loyal love?
(Mic 7:19)	Who will once again have mercy on us? Who will conquer our evil deeds? Who will hurl all our sins into the depths of the sea?
(Heb 10:17)	then he says, “Their sins and their lawless deeds I will remember no longer.”
(Jer 31:34)	“People will no longer need to teach their neighbors and relatives to know me. For all of them, from the least important to the most important, will know me,” says the Lord. “For I will forgive their sin and will no longer call to mind the wrong they have done.”
(Heb 8:12)	“For I will be merciful toward their evil deeds, and their sins I will remember no longer.”
(Luke 7:47)	Therefore I tell you, her sins, which were many, are forgiven, thus she loved much; but the one who is forgiven little loves little.”
(Luke 7:48)	Then Jesus said to her, “Your sins are forgiven.”
(Luke 7:50)	He said to the woman, “Your faith has saved you; go in peace.”
(Matt 12:31)	For this reason I tell you, people will be forgiven for every sin and blasphemy, but the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven.
(Matt 12:32)	Whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven. But whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, either in this age or in the age to come.
(Ps 32:1)	By David; a well-written song. How blessed is the one whose rebellious acts are forgiven, whose sin is pardoned!
(Ps 32:2)	How blessed is the one whose wrongdoing the Lord does not punish, in whose spirit there is no deceit.
＊	OF THE MOST HEINOUS SINS
(Isa 1:18)	Come, let’s consider your options,” says the Lord. “Though your sins have stained you like the color red, you can become white like snow; though they are as easy to see as the color scarlet, you can become white like wool.
＊	OF ALL SINS
(Ps 103:3)	He is the one who forgives all your sins, who heals all your diseases,
(Jer 33:8)	I will purify them from all the sin that they committed against me. I will forgive all their sins which they committed in rebelling against me.
(Ezek 33:16)	None of the sins he has committed will be counted against him. He has done what is just and right; he will certainly live.
＊	OF BACKSLIDING
(Jer 3:12)	“Go and shout this message to my people in the countries in the north. Tell them, ‘Come back to me, wayward Israel,’ says the Lord. ‘I will not continue to look on you with displeasure. For I am merciful,’ says the Lord. ‘I will not be angry with you forever.
(Jer 3:22)	Come back to me, you wayward people. I want to cure your waywardness. Say, ‘Here we are. We come to you because you are the Lord our God.
(Hos 14:4)	“I will heal their waywardness and love them freely, for my anger will turn away from them.
＊	PARDON THROUGH CHRIST
(Zech 13:1)	“In that day there will be a fountain opened up for the dynasty of David and the people of Jerusalem to cleanse them from sin and impurity.
(Matt 1:21)	She will give birth to a son and you will name him Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins.”
(Acts 13:38)	Therefore let it be known to you, brothers, that through this one forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you,
(Eph 1:7)	In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our offenses, according to the riches of his grace
(Gal 1:4)	who gave himself for our sins to rescue us from this present evil age according to the will of our God and Father,
(1Tim 1:15)	This saying is trustworthy and deserves full acceptance: “Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners” – and I am the worst of them!
(1Cor 15:3)	For I passed on to you as of first importance what I also received – that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures,
(Heb 1:3)	The Son is the radiance of his glory and the representation of his essence, and he sustains all things by his powerful word, and so when he had accomplished cleansing for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high.
(Heb 9:26)	for then he would have had to suffer again and again since the foundation of the world. But now he has appeared once for all at the consummation of the ages to put away sin by his sacrifice.
(Heb 9:28)	so also, after Christ was offered once to bear the sins of many, to those who eagerly await him he will appear a second time, not to bear sin but to bring salvation.
(Heb 10:14)	For by one offering he has perfected for all time those who are made holy.
(John 1:29)	On the next day John saw Jesus coming toward him and said, “Look, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world!
(Matt 26:28)	for this is my blood, the blood of the covenant, that is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.
(Isa 53:5)	He was wounded because of our rebellious deeds, crushed because of our sins; he endured punishment that made us well; because of his wounds we have been healed.
(Isa 53:6)	All of us had wandered off like sheep; each of us had strayed off on his own path, but the Lord caused the sin of all of us to attack him.
(1John 2:1)	(My little children, I am writing these things to you so that you may not sin.) But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the Righteous One,
(1John 2:12)	I am writing to you, little children, that your sins have been forgiven because of his name.
(1John 1:7)	But if we walk in the light as he himself is in the light, we have fellowship with one another and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin.
(1John 1:9)	But if we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous, forgiving us our sins and cleansing us from all unrighteousness.
(1John 3:5)	And you know that Jesus was revealed to take away sins, and in him there is no sin.
(1Pet 2:24)	He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we may cease from sinning and live for righteousness. By his wounds you were healed.
(Rev 1:5)	and from Jesus Christ – the faithful witness, the firstborn from among the dead, the ruler over the kings of the earth. To the one who loves us and has set us free from our sins at the cost of his own blood
＊	RECONCILIATION
(Isa 27:5)	unless they became my subjects and made peace with me; let them make peace with me.
(Rom 5:9)	Much more then, because we have now been declared righteous by his blood, we will be saved through him from God’s wrath.
(Rom 5:10)	For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of his Son, how much more, since we have been reconciled, will we be saved by his life?
(2Cor 5:18)	And all these things are from God who reconciled us to himself through Christ, and who has given us the ministry of reconciliation.
(2Cor 5:19)	In other words, in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting people’s trespasses against them, and he has given us the message of reconciliation.
(Eph 2:13)	But now in Christ Jesus you who used to be far away have been brought near by the blood of Christ.
(Eph 2:17)	And he came and preached peace to you who were far off and peace to those who were near,
(Col 1:21)	And you were at one time strangers and enemies in your minds as expressed through your evil deeds,
(Col 1:23)	if indeed you remain in the faith, established and firm, without shifting from the hope of the gospel that you heard. This gospel has also been preached in all creation under heaven, and I, Paul, have become its servant.
(Heb 2:17)	Therefore he had to be made like his brothers and sisters in every respect, so that he could become a merciful and faithful high priest in things relating to God, to make atonement for the sins of the people.
＊	3. ADOPTION
(Jer 31:9)	They will come back shedding tears of contrition. I will bring them back praying prayers of repentance. I will lead them besides streams of water, along smooth paths where they will never stumble. I will do this because I am Israel’s father; Ephraim is my firstborn son.’”
(Isa 63:16)	For you are our father, though Abraham does not know us and Israel does not recognize us. You, Lord, are our father; you have been called our protector from ancient times.
(Isa 64:8)	Yet, Lord, you are our father. We are the clay, and you are our potter; we are all the product of your labor.
(Rom 8:14)	For all who are led by the Spirit of God are the sons of God.
(Rom 8:15)	For you did not receive the spirit of slavery leading again to fear, but you received the Spirit of adoption, by whom we cry, “Abba, Father.”
(Rom 9:26)	“And in the very place where it was said to them, ‘You are not my people,’ there they will be called ‘sons of the living God.’”
(2Cor 6:18)	and I will be a father to you, and you will be my sons and daughters,” says the All-Powerful Lord.
(Gal 3:26)	For in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God through faith.
(Gal 4:4)	But when the appropriate time had come, God sent out his Son, born of a woman, born under the law,
(Gal 4:5)	to redeem those who were under the law, so that we may be adopted as sons with full rights.
(Gal 4:7)	So you are no longer a slave but a son, and if you are a son, then you are also an heir through God.
(Eph 1:5)	He did this by predestining us to adoption as his legal heirs through Jesus Christ, according to the pleasure of his will –
(Eph 1:6)	to the praise of the glory of his grace that he has freely bestowed on us in his dearly loved Son.
(John 1:12)	But to all who have received him – those who believe in his name – he has given the right to become God’s children
(1John 3:1)	(See what sort of love the Father has given to us: that we should be called God’s children – and indeed we are! For this reason the world does not know us: because it did not know him.
(1John 3:2)	Dear friends, we are God’s children now, and what we will be has not yet been revealed. We know that whenever it is revealed we will be like him, because we will see him just as he is.
＊	4. UNION AND COMMUNION WITH THE CHURCH
(Heb 12:22)	But you have come to Mount Zion, the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to myriads of angels, to the assembly
(Heb 12:24)	and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks of something better than Abel’s does.
(Phil 3:3)	For we are the circumcision, the ones who worship by the Spirit of God, exult in Christ Jesus, and do not rely on human credentials
(Gal 3:28)	There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is neither male nor female – for all of you are one in Christ Jesus.
(Gal 3:29)	And if you belong to Christ, then you are Abraham’s descendants, heirs according to the promise.
(Gal 4:26)	But the Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother.
(Gal 4:28)	But you, brothers and sisters, are children of the promise like Isaac.
(1John 1:3)	What we have seen and heard we announce to you too, so that you may have fellowship with us (and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ).
(Eph 2:12)	that you were at that time without the Messiah, alienated from the citizenship of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world.
(Eph 2:13)	But now in Christ Jesus you who used to be far away have been brought near by the blood of Christ.
(Eph 2:19)	So then you are no longer foreigners and noncitizens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of God’s household,
(Eph 2:22)	in whom you also are being built together into a dwelling place of God in the Spirit.
(Rom 11:17)	Now if some of the branches were broken off, and you, a wild olive shoot, were grafted in among them and participated in the richness of the olive root,
＊	5. FREE ACCESS TO GOD, WITH ACCEPTANCE
(Eph 2:18)	so that through him we both have access in one Spirit to the Father.
(Ezek 20:40)	For there on my holy mountain, the high mountain of Israel, declares the Sovereign Lord, all the house of Israel will serve me, all of them in the land. I will accept them there, and there I will seek your contributions and your choice gifts, with all your holy things.
(Ezek 20:41)	When I bring you out from the nations and gather you from the lands where you are scattered, I will accept you along with your soothing aroma. I will display my holiness among you in the sight of the nations.
(Eph 3:12)	in whom we have boldness and confident access to God by way of Christ’s faithfulness.
(Heb 10:19)	Therefore, brothers and sisters, since we have confidence to enter the sanctuary by the blood of Jesus,
(Heb 10:20)	by the fresh and living way that he inaugurated for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh,
(Eph 1:6)	to the praise of the glory of his grace that he has freely bestowed on us in his dearly loved Son.
(1Pet 2:4)	So as you come to him, a living stone rejected by men but chosen and precious in God’s sight,
(1Pet 2:5)	you yourselves, as living stones, are built up as a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood and to offer spiritual sacrifices that are acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.
＊	6. OF HEARING PRAYER
(Job 22:27)	You will pray to him and he will hear you, and you will fulfill your vows to him.
(Ps 4:3)	Realize that the Lord shows the godly special favor; the Lord responds when I cry out to him.
(Ps 34:6)	This oppressed man cried out and the Lord heard; he saved him from all his troubles.
(Ps 34:15)	The Lord pays attention to the godly and hears their cry for help.
(Ps 34:17)	The godly cry out and the Lord hears; he saves them from all their troubles.
(Ps 50:15)	Pray to me when you are in trouble! I will deliver you, and you will honor me!”
(Ps 65:2)	You hear prayers; all people approach you.
(Ps 91:15)	When he calls out to me, I will answer him. I will be with him when he is in trouble; I will rescue him and bring him honor.
(Ps 145:19)	He satisfies the desire of his loyal followers; he hears their cry for help and delivers them.
(Prov 15:29)	The Lord is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayer of the righteous.
(Isa 30:19)	For people will live in Zion; in Jerusalem you will weep no more. When he hears your cry of despair, he will indeed show you mercy; when he hears it, he will respond to you.
(Isa 58:9)	Then you will call out, and the Lord will respond; you will cry out, and he will reply, ‘Here I am.’ You must remove the burdensome yoke from among you and stop pointing fingers and speaking sinfully.
(Isa 65:24)	Before they even call out, I will respond; while they are still speaking, I will hear.
(Jer 29:12)	When you call out to me and come to me in prayer, I will hear your prayers.
(Zech 13:9)	Then I will bring the remaining third into the fire; I will refine them like silver is refined and will test them like gold is tested. They will call on my name and I will answer; I will say, ‘These are my people,’ and they will say, ‘The Lord is my God.’”
(Matt 7:7)	“Ask and it will be given to you; seek and you will find; knock and the door will be opened for you.
(Matt 7:8)	For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks, the door will be opened.
(Matt 7:11)	If you then, although you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give good gifts to those who ask him!
(Matt 21:22)	And whatever you ask in prayer, if you believe, you will receive.”
(John 15:7)	If you remain in me and my words remain in you, ask whatever you want, and it will be done for you.
(John 16:23)	At that time you will ask me nothing. I tell you the solemn truth, whatever you ask the Father in my name he will give you.
(John 16:24)	Until now you have not asked for anything in my name. Ask and you will receive it, so that your joy may be complete.
(John 14:13)	And I will do whatever you ask in my name, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
(John 14:14)	If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it.
(Jas 5:15)	And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick and the Lord will raise him up – and if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven.
(Jas 5:16)	So confess your sins to one another and pray for one another so that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person has great effectiveness.
(1John 3:22)	and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing to him.
(1John 5:14)	And this is the confidence that we have before him: that whenever we ask anything according to his will, he hears us.
(1John 5:16)	If anyone sees his fellow Christian committing a sin not resulting in death, he should ask, and God will grant life to the person who commits a sin not resulting in death. There is a sin resulting in death. I do not say that he should ask about that.
＊	7. SANCTIFYING GRACE IN GENERAL
(Ps 84:11)	For the Lord God is our sovereign protector. The Lord bestows favor and honor; he withholds no good thing from those who have integrity.
(John 17:17)	Set them apart in the truth; your word is truth.
(John 17:19)	And I set myself apart on their behalf, so that they too may be truly set apart.
(Eph 2:10)	For we are his creative work, having been created in Christ Jesus for good works that God prepared beforehand so we can do them.
(Phil 2:13)	for the one bringing forth in you both the desire and the effort – for the sake of his good pleasure – is God.
(Phil 4:13)	I am able to do all things through the one who strengthens me.
(2Cor 3:5)	Not that we are adequate in ourselves to consider anything as if it were coming from ourselves, but our adequacy is from God,
(1Thess 5:23)	Now may the God of peace himself make you completely holy and may your spirit and soul and body be kept entirely blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
(Col 1:12)	giving thanks to the Father who has qualified you to share in the saints’ inheritance in the light.
(Col 1:21)	And you were at one time strangers and enemies in your minds as expressed through your evil deeds,
(Col 1:22)	but now he has reconciled you by his physical body through death to present you holy, without blemish, and blameless before him –
(2Thess 2:13)	But we ought to thank God always for you, brothers and sisters loved by the Lord, because God chose you from the beginning for salvation through sanctification by the Spirit and faith in the truth.
(Titus 2:14)	He gave himself for us to set us free from every kind of lawlessness and to purify for himself a people who are truly his, who are eager to do good.
(Jer 31:33)	“But I will make a new covenant with the whole nation of Israel after I plant them back in the land,” says the Lord. “I will put my law within them and write it on their hearts and minds. I will be their God and they will be my people.
(Luke 1:74)	that we, being rescued from the hand of our enemies, may serve him without fear,
(Luke 1:75)	in holiness and righteousness before him for as long as we live.
(Jer 30:9)	But they will be subject to the Lord their God and to the Davidic ruler whom I will raise up as king over them.
(1Cor 6:11)	Some of you once lived this way. But you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God.
(2Cor 3:18)	And we all, with unveiled faces reflecting the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another, which is from the Lord, who is the Spirit.
＊	8. OF CONVERTING GRACE
(Deut 30:6)	The Lord your God will also cleanse your heart and the hearts of your descendants so that you may love him with all your mind and being and so that you may live.
(Jer 24:7)	I will give them the desire to acknowledge that I am the Lord. I will be their God and they will be my people. For they will wholeheartedly return to me.’
(Jer 31:18)	I have indeed heard the people of Israel say mournfully, ‘We were like a calf untrained to the yoke. You disciplined us and we learned from it. Let us come back to you and we will do so, for you are the Lord our God.
(Ps 110:3)	Your people willingly follow you when you go into battle. On the holy hills at sunrise the dew of your youth belongs to you.
(Titus 3:5)	he saved us not by works of righteousness that we have done but on the basis of his mercy, through the washing of the new birth and the renewing of the Holy Spirit,
(Ezek 36:26)	I will give you a new heart, and I will put a new spirit within you. I will remove the heart of stone from your body and give you a heart of flesh.
(2Tim 1:9)	He is the one who saved us and called us with a holy calling, not based on our works but on his own purpose and grace, granted to us in Christ Jesus before time began,
(Ezek 11:19)	I will give them one heart and I will put a new spirit within them; I will remove the hearts of stone from their bodies and I will give them tender hearts,
(Ezek 11:20)	so that they may follow my statutes and observe my regulations and carry them out. Then they will be my people, and I will be their God.
(Jer 50:4)	“When that time comes,” says the Lord, “the people of Israel and Judah will return to the land together. They will come back with tears of repentance as they seek the Lord their God.
(Jer 50:5)	They will ask the way to Zion; they will turn their faces toward it. They will come and bind themselves to the Lord in a lasting covenant that will never be forgotten.
＊	THE GRACE OF REPENTANCE
(Zech 12:10)	“I will pour out on the kingship of David and the population of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and supplication so that they will look to me, the one they have pierced. They will lament for him as one laments for an only son, and there will be a bitter cry for him like the bitter cry for a firstborn.
(Acts 3:26)	God raised up his servant and sent him first to you, to bless you by turning each one of you from your iniquities.”
(Acts 5:31)	God exalted him to his right hand as Leader and Savior, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins.
(Ezek 36:31)	Then you will remember your evil behavior and your deeds which were not good; you will loathe yourselves on account of your sins and your abominable deeds.
(Hos 2:6)	Therefore, I will soon fence her in with thorns; I will wall her in so that she cannot find her way.
(Hos 2:7)	Then she will pursue her lovers, but she will not catch them; she will seek them, but she will not find them. Then she will say, “I will go back to my husband, because I was better off then than I am now.”
(Matt 9:13)	Go and learn what this saying means: ‘I want mercy and not sacrifice.’ For I did not come to call the righteous, but sinners.”
(Ezek 20:43)	And there you will remember your conduct and all your deeds by which you defiled yourselves. You will despise yourselves because of all the evil deeds you have done.
＊	THE GRACE OF FAITH
(Phil 1:29)	For it has been granted to you not only to believe in Christ but also to suffer for him,
(Eph 2:8)	For by grace you are saved through faith, and this is not from yourselves, it is the gift of God;
(John 6:45)	It is written in the prophets, ‘And they will all be taught by God.’ Everyone who hears and learns from the Father comes to me.
＊	GRACE TO FEAR GOD
(Jer 32:39)	I will give them a single-minded purpose to live in a way that always shows respect for me. They will want to do that for their own good and the good of the children who descend from them.
＊	9. KNOWLEDGE, WISDOM, ETC.
＊	KNOWLEDGE
(Prov 28:5)	Evil people do not understand justice, but those who seek the Lord understand it all.
(Isa 2:3)	many peoples will come and say, “Come, let us go up to the Lord’s mountain, to the temple of the God of Jacob, so he can teach us his requirements, and we can follow his standards.” For Zion will be the center for moral instruction; the Lord’s message will issue from Jerusalem.
(2Cor 4:6)	For God, who said “Let light shine out of darkness,” is the one who shined in our hearts to give us the light of the glorious knowledge of God in the face of Christ.
(Prov 2:5)	then you will understand how to fear the Lord, and you will discover knowledge about God.
(Prov 2:9)	Then you will understand righteousness and justice and equity – every good way.
(Isa 35:8)	A thoroughfare will be there – it will be called the Way of Holiness. The unclean will not travel on it; it is reserved for those authorized to use it – fools will not stray into it.
(Isa 29:18)	At that time the deaf will be able to hear words read from a scroll, and the eyes of the blind will be able to see through deep darkness.
(Isa 29:24)	Those who stray morally will gain understanding; those who complain will acquire insight.
(Hos 6:3)	So let us search for him! Let us seek to know the Lord! He will come to our rescue as certainly as the appearance of the dawn, as certainly as the winter rain comes, as certainly as the spring rain that waters the land.”
(Isa 52:6)	For this reason my people will know my name, for this reason they will know at that time that I am the one who says, ‘Here I am.’”
(Matt 11:25)	At that time Jesus said, “I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent, and have revealed them to little children.
(1John 5:20)	And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us insight to know him who is true, and we are in him who is true, in his Son Jesus Christ. This one is the true God and eternal life.
(Jer 31:34)	“People will no longer need to teach their neighbors and relatives to know me. For all of them, from the least important to the most important, will know me,” says the Lord. “For I will forgive their sin and will no longer call to mind the wrong they have done.”
(Luke 1:77)	to give his people knowledge of salvation through the forgiveness of their sins.
(Luke 1:79)	to give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace.”
(Luke 4:18)	“The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim release to the captives and the regaining of sight to the blind, to set free those who are oppressed,
(Isa 32:3)	Eyes will no longer be blind and ears will be attentive.
(Isa 42:7)	to open blind eyes, to release prisoners from dungeons, those who live in darkness from prisons.
(John 8:12)	Then Jesus spoke out again, “I am the light of the world! The one who follows me will never walk in darkness, but will have the light of life.”
(1Cor 2:14)	The unbeliever does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him. And he cannot understand them, because they are spiritually discerned.
(1Cor 2:15)	The one who is spiritual discerns all things, yet he himself is understood by no one.
＊	WISDOM
(Ps 16:7)	I will praise the Lord who guides me; yes, during the night I reflect and learn.
(Prov 2:6)	For the Lord gives wisdom, and from his mouth comes knowledge and understanding.
(Prov 2:7)	He stores up effective counsel for the upright, and is like a shield for those who live with integrity,
(Eccl 2:26)	For to the one who pleases him, God gives wisdom, knowledge, and joy, but to the sinner, he gives the task of amassing wealth – only to give it to the one who pleases God. This task of the wicked is futile – like chasing the wind!
(Ps 51:6)	Look, you desire integrity in the inner man; you want me to possess wisdom.
(Jas 1:5)	But if anyone is deficient in wisdom, he should ask God, who gives to all generously and without reprimand, and it will be given to him.
＊	DIVINE TEACHING
(Ps 32:8)	I will instruct and teach you about how you should live. I will advise you as I look you in the eye.
(John 7:17)	If anyone wants to do God’s will, he will know about my teaching, whether it is from God or whether I speak from my own authority.
(Ps 25:8)	The Lord is both kind and fair; that is why he teaches sinners the right way to live.
(Ps 25:12)	The Lord shows his faithful followers the way they should live.
＊	DIVINE GUIDANCE
(Isa 30:21)	You will hear a word spoken behind you, saying, “This is the correct way, walk in it,” whether you are heading to the right or the left.
(Isa 61:8)	For I, the Lord, love justice and hate robbery and sin. I will repay them because of my faithfulness; I will make a permanent covenant with them.
(Ps 73:24)	You guide me by your wise advice, and then you will lead me to a position of honor.
(Isa 58:11)	The Lord will continually lead you; he will feed you even in parched regions. He will give you renewed strength, and you will be like a well-watered garden, like a spring that continually produces water.
(Ps 23:3)	He restores my strength. He leads me down the right paths for the sake of his reputation.
(Isa 49:10)	They will not be hungry or thirsty; the sun’s oppressive heat will not beat down on them, for one who has compassion on them will guide them; he will lead them to springs of water.
(Deut 32:10)	The Lord found him in a desolate land, in an empty wasteland where animals howl. He continually guarded him and taught him; he continually protected him like the pupil of his eye.
(Deut 32:12)	The Lord alone was guiding him, no foreign god was with him.
＊	ABILITY FOR GOOD DISCOURSE
(Prov 10:31)	The speech of the righteous bears the fruit of wisdom, but the one who speaks perversion will be destroyed.
(Prov 10:32)	The lips of the righteous know what is pleasing, but the speech of the wicked is perverse.
(Isa 32:4)	The mind that acts rashly will possess discernment and the tongue that stutters will speak with ease and clarity.
(Prov 16:1)	The intentions of the heart belong to a man, but the answer of the tongue comes from the Lord.
(1Cor 12:8)	For one person is given through the Spirit the message of wisdom, and another the message of knowledge according to the same Spirit,
(Luke 21:15)	For I will give you the words along with the wisdom that none of your adversaries will be able to withstand or contradict.
＊	10. THE MEANS OF GRACE
(Ps 23:2)	He takes me to lush pastures, he leads me to refreshing water.
(Isa 49:9)	You will say to the prisoners, ‘Come out,’ and to those who are in dark dungeons, ‘Emerge.’ They will graze beside the roads; on all the slopes they will find pasture.
(Isa 49:10)	They will not be hungry or thirsty; the sun’s oppressive heat will not beat down on them, for one who has compassion on them will guide them; he will lead them to springs of water.
(Isa 52:7)	How delightful it is to see approaching over the mountains the feet of a messenger who announces peace, a messenger who brings good news, who announces deliverance, who says to Zion, “Your God reigns!”
(Isa 52:8)	Listen, your watchmen shout; in unison they shout for joy, for they see with their very own eyes the Lord’s return to Zion.
(Isa 62:6)	I post watchmen on your walls, O Jerusalem; they should keep praying all day and all night. You who pray to the Lord, don’t be silent!
(Jer 3:15)	I will give you leaders who will be faithful to me. They will lead you with knowledge and insight.
(Isa 41:18)	I will make streams flow down the slopes and produce springs in the middle of the valleys. I will turn the wilderness into a pool of water and the arid land into springs.
(Jer 31:12)	They will come and shout for joy on Mount Zion. They will be radiant with joy over the good things the Lord provides, the grain, the fresh wine, the olive oil, the young sheep and calves he has given to them. They will be like a well-watered garden and will not grow faint or weary any more.
(Jer 31:14)	I will provide the priests with abundant provisions. My people will be filled to the full with the good things I provide.”
(Isa 30:20)	The Lord will give you distress to eat and suffering to drink; but your teachers will no longer be hidden; your eyes will see them.
(Isa 56:7)	I will bring them to my holy mountain; I will make them happy in the temple where people pray to me. Their burnt offerings and sacrifices will be accepted on my altar, for my temple will be known as a temple where all nations may pray.”
(Ezek 34:15)	I myself will feed my sheep and I myself will make them lie down, declares the Sovereign Lord.
(Eph 4:11)	And he himself gave some as apostles, some as prophets, some as evangelists, and some as pastors and teachers,
(Eph 4:13)	until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God – a mature person, attaining to the measure of Christ’s full stature.
＊	A BLESSING UPON ORDINANCES
(Ps 36:8)	They are filled with food from your house, and you allow them to drink from the river of your delicacies.
(Ps 36:9)	For with you is the fountain of life; in your light we see light.
(Ps 63:2)	Yes, in the sanctuary I have seen you, and witnessed your power and splendor.
(Ps 63:5)	As if with choice meat you satisfy my soul. My mouth joyfully praises you,
(Song 2:3)	Like an apple tree among the trees of the forest, so is my beloved among the young men. I delight to sit in his shade, and his fruit is sweet to my taste.
(Ps 92:13)	Planted in the Lord’s house, they grow in the courts of our God.
(Ps 68:24)	They see your processions, O God – the processions of my God, my king, who marches along in holy splendor.
(Ps 65:4)	How blessed is the one whom you choose, and allow to live in your palace courts. May we be satisfied with the good things of your house – your holy palace.
(Ps 89:15)	How blessed are the people who worship you! O Lord, they experience your favor.
(Ps 89:16)	They rejoice in your name all day long, and are vindicated by your justice.
(Ps 84:4)	How blessed are those who live in your temple and praise you continually! (Selah)
(Ps 84:11)	For the Lord God is our sovereign protector. The Lord bestows favor and honor; he withholds no good thing from those who have integrity.
(Isa 48:17)	This is what the Lord, your protector, says, the Holy One of Israel: “I am the Lord your God, who teaches you how to succeed, who leads you in the way you should go.
(Isa 12:3)	Joyfully you will draw water from the springs of deliverance.
(Isa 60:7)	All the sheep of Kedar will be gathered to you; the rams of Nebaioth will be available to you as sacrifices. They will go up on my altar acceptably, and I will bestow honor on my majestic temple.
(Matt 18:20)	For where two or three are assembled in my name, I am there among them.”
＊	11. OF GRACE AGAINST SIN AND TEMPTATION
＊	TO MORTIFY SIN
(Hos 14:8)	O Ephraim, I do not want to have anything to do with idols anymore! I will answer him and care for him. I am like a luxuriant cypress tree; your fruitfulness comes from me!
(Rom 7:24)	Wretched man that I am! Who will rescue me from this body of death?
(Rom 7:25)	Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin.
(Rom 6:6)	We know that our old man was crucified with him so that the body of sin would no longer dominate us, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin.
(Rom 6:14)	For sin will have no mastery over you, because you are not under law but under grace.
(Gal 5:16)	But I say, live by the Spirit and you will not carry out the desires of the flesh.
(John 8:32)	and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.”
(John 15:2)	He takes away every branch that does not bear fruit in me. He prunes every branch that bears fruit so that it will bear more fruit.
(Rom 8:2)	For the law of the life-giving Spirit in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and death.
(Rom 8:4)	so that the righteous requirement of the law may be fulfilled in us, who do not walk according to the flesh but according to the Spirit.
＊	AGAINST TEMPTATION
(Rom 8:37)	No, in all these things we have complete victory through him who loved us!
(1Cor 10:13)	No trial has overtaken you that is not faced by others. And God is faithful: He will not let you be tried beyond what you are able to bear, but with the trial will also provide a way out so that you may be able to endure it.
(Eccl 7:18)	It is best to take hold of one warning without letting go of the other warning; for the one who fears God will follow both warnings.
(2Pet 2:9)	– if so, then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from their trials, and to reserve the unrighteous for punishment at the day of judgment,
(2Cor 12:9)	But he said to me, “My grace is enough for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.” So then, I will boast most gladly about my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may reside in me.
(Heb 2:18)	For since he himself suffered when he was tempted, he is able to help those who are tempted.
(1John 4:4)	You are from God, little children, and have conquered them, because the one who is in you is greater than the one who is in the world.
＊	FROM THE ENTICEMENT OF SINNERS
(Prov 2:12)	to deliver you from the way of the wicked, from those speaking perversity,
(Prov 2:16)	to deliver you from the adulterous woman, from the loose woman who has flattered you with her words;
(Eccl 7:26)	I discovered this: More bitter than death is the kind of woman who is like a hunter’s snare; her heart is like a hunter’s net and her hands are like prison chains. The man who pleases God escapes her, but the sinner is captured by her.
＊	VICTORY OVER THE WORLD
(John 16:33)	I have told you these things so that in me you may have peace. In the world you have trouble and suffering, but take courage – I have conquered the world.”
(Gal 6:14)	But may I never boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world.
(Gal 1:4)	who gave himself for our sins to rescue us from this present evil age according to the will of our God and Father,
(John 17:15)	I am not asking you to take them out of the world, but that you keep them safe from the evil one.
(1John 5:4)	because everyone who has been fathered by God conquers the world. This is the conquering power that has conquered the world: our faith.
(1John 5:5)	Now who is the person who has conquered the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
＊	VICTORY OVER THE DEVIL
(Jas 4:7)	So submit to God. But resist the devil and he will flee from you.
(Gen 3:15)	And I will put hostility between you and the woman and between your offspring and her offspring; her offspring will attack your head, and you will attack her offspring’s heel.”
(Luke 22:31)	“Simon, Simon, pay attention! Satan has demanded to have you all, to sift you like wheat,
(Luke 22:32)	but I have prayed for you, Simon, that your faith may not fail. When you have turned back, strengthen your brothers.”
(Rom 16:20)	The God of peace will quickly crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus be with you.
(1John 2:14)	I have written to you, children, that you have known the Father. I have written to you, fathers, that you have known him who has been from the beginning. I have written to you, young people, that you are strong, and the word of God resides in you, and you have conquered the evil one.
(1John 5:18)	We know that everyone fathered by God does not sin, but God protects the one he has fathered, and the evil one cannot touch him.
＊	12. STRENGTH, COURAGE, AND RESOLUTION
(Isa 42:3)	A crushed reed he will not break, a dim wick he will not extinguish; he will faithfully make just decrees.
(Isa 12:2)	Look, God is my deliverer! I will trust in him and not fear. For the Lord gives me strength and protects me; he has become my deliverer.”
(Isa 40:29)	He gives strength to those who are tired; to the ones who lack power, he gives renewed energy.
(Isa 40:31)	But those who wait for the Lord’s help find renewed strength; they rise up as if they had eagles’ wings, they run without growing weary, they walk without getting tired.
(Job 11:15)	For then you will lift up your face without blemish; you will be securely established and will not fear.
(2Cor 12:9)	But he said to me, “My grace is enough for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.” So then, I will boast most gladly about my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may reside in me.
(Ps 31:24)	Be strong and confident, all you who wait on the Lord!
(Zech 10:12)	Thus I will strengthen them by my power, and they will walk about in my name,” says the Lord.
(Ps 68:35)	You are awe-inspiring, O God, as you emerge from your holy temple! It is the God of Israel who gives the people power and strength. God deserves praise!
(Zech 12:8)	On that day the Lord himself will defend the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the weakest among them will be like mighty David, and the dynasty of David will be like God, like the angel of the Lord before them.
(Isa 35:3)	Strengthen the hands that have gone limp, steady the knees that shake!
(Isa 35:4)	Tell those who panic, “Be strong! Do not fear! Look, your God comes to avenge! With divine retribution he comes to deliver you.”
(Joel 3:16)	The Lord roars from Zion; from Jerusalem his voice bellows out. The heavens and the earth shake. But the Lord is a refuge for his people; he is a stronghold for the citizens of Israel.
(2Tim 1:7)	For God did not give us a Spirit of fear but of power and love and self-control.
＊	13. FRUITFULNESS AND INCREASE OF GRACE
＊	FRUITFULNESS
(2Pet 1:8)	For if these things are really yours and are continually increasing, they will keep you from becoming ineffective and unproductive in your pursuit of knowing our Lord Jesus Christ more intimately.
(Hos 14:5)	I will be like the dew to Israel; he will blossom like a lily, he will send down his roots like a cedar of Lebanon.
(Hos 14:8)	O Ephraim, I do not want to have anything to do with idols anymore! I will answer him and care for him. I am like a luxuriant cypress tree; your fruitfulness comes from me!
(Ps 1:3)	He is like a tree planted by flowing streams; it yields its fruit at the proper time, and its leaves never fall off. He succeeds in everything he attempts.
(Jer 31:12)	They will come and shout for joy on Mount Zion. They will be radiant with joy over the good things the Lord provides, the grain, the fresh wine, the olive oil, the young sheep and calves he has given to them. They will be like a well-watered garden and will not grow faint or weary any more.
(John 15:2)	He takes away every branch that does not bear fruit in me. He prunes every branch that bears fruit so that it will bear more fruit.
(John 15:5)	“I am the vine; you are the branches. The one who remains in me – and I in him – bears much fruit, because apart from me you can accomplish nothing.
＊	IN OLD AGE
(Ps 92:14)	They bear fruit even when they are old; they are filled with vitality and have many leaves.
＊	INCREASE IN GRACE
(Job 17:9)	But the righteous man holds to his way, and the one with clean hands grows stronger.
(Ps 84:7)	They are sustained as they travel along; each one appears before God in Zion.
(Ps 92:12)	The godly grow like a palm tree; they grow high like a cedar in Lebanon.
(Prov 4:18)	But the path of the righteous is like the bright morning light, growing brighter and brighter until full day.
(Mal 4:2)	But for you who respect my name, the sun of vindication will rise with healing wings, and you will skip about like calves released from the stall.
(Matt 13:12)	For whoever has will be given more, and will have an abundance. But whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him.
(Jas 4:6)	But he gives greater grace. Therefore it says, “God opposes the proud, but he gives grace to the humble.”
＊	THE GRACE OF MEEKNESS
(Isa 11:6)	A wolf will reside with a lamb, and a leopard will lie down with a young goat; an ox and a young lion will graze together, as a small child leads them along.
(Isa 11:9)	They will no longer injure or destroy on my entire royal mountain. For there will be universal submission to the Lord’s sovereignty, just as the waters completely cover the sea.
＊	14. GRACE TO PERSEVERE
(John 10:28)	I give them eternal life, and they will never perish; no one will snatch them from my hand.
(John 10:29)	My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one can snatch them from my Father’s hand.
(2Thess 3:3)	But the Lord is faithful, and he will strengthen you and protect you from the evil one.
(2Cor 1:21)	But it is God who establishes us together with you in Christ and who anointed us,
(1Cor 1:8)	He will also strengthen you to the end, so that you will be blameless on the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
(John 17:11)	I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them safe in your name that you have given me, so that they may be one just as we are one.
(Phil 1:6)	For I am sure of this very thing, that the one who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus.
(1Thess 5:23)	Now may the God of peace himself make you completely holy and may your spirit and soul and body be kept entirely blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
(1Thess 5:24)	He who calls you is trustworthy, and he will in fact do this.
(Rom 8:38)	For I am convinced that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor heavenly rulers, nor things that are present, nor things to come, nor powers,
(Rom 8:39)	nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.
(Prov 10:25)	When the storm passes through, the wicked are swept away, but the righteous are an everlasting foundation.
(Ps 94:18)	If I say, “My foot is slipping,” your loyal love, O Lord, supports me.
(1Pet 1:5)	who by God’s power are protected through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.
(Jude 1:24)	Now to the one who is able to keep you from falling, and to cause you to stand, rejoicing, without blemish before his glorious presence,
(2Pet 1:10)	Therefore, brothers and sisters, make every effort to be sure of your calling and election. For by doing this you will never stumble into sin.
(Ps 138:8)	The Lord avenges me. O Lord, your loyal love endures. Do not abandon those whom you have made!
(1John 5:18)	We know that everyone fathered by God does not sin, but God protects the one he has fathered, and the evil one cannot touch him.
＊	15. SANCTIFIED AFFLICTIONS
(Job 5:17)	“Therefore, blessed is the man whom God corrects, so do not despise the discipline of the Almighty.
(Job 5:18)	For he wounds, but he also bandages; he strikes, but his hands also heal.
(Deut 8:5)	Be keenly aware that just as a parent disciplines his child, the Lord your God disciplines you.
(Prov 3:12)	For the Lord disciplines those he loves, just as a father disciplines the son in whom he delights.
(Isa 1:25)	I will attack you; I will purify your metal with flux. I will remove all your slag.
(Ps 94:12)	How blessed is the one whom you instruct, O Lord, the one whom you teach from your law,
(Ps 94:13)	in order to protect him from times of trouble, until the wicked are destroyed.
(Ps 119:67)	Before I was afflicted I used to stray off, but now I keep your instructions.
(Ps 119:71)	It was good for me to suffer, so that I might learn your statutes.
(Ps 119:75)	I know, Lord, that your regulations are just. You disciplined me because of your faithful devotion to me.
(Job 36:8)	But if they are bound in chains, and held captive by the cords of affliction,
(Job 36:10)	And he reveals this for correction, and says that they must turn from evil.
(Isa 48:10)	Look, I have refined you, but not as silver; I have purified you in the furnace of misery.
(Isa 27:9)	So in this way Jacob’s sin will be forgiven, and this is how they will show they are finished sinning: They will make all the stones of the altars like crushed limestone, and the Asherah poles and the incense altars will no longer stand.
(1Cor 11:32)	But when we are judged by the Lord, we are disciplined so that we may not be condemned with the world.
(Rom 5:3)	Not only this, but we also rejoice in sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance,
(Rom 5:4)	and endurance, character, and character, hope.
(2Cor 4:16)	Therefore we do not despair, but even if our physical body is wearing away, our inner person is being renewed day by day.
(2Cor 4:17)	For our momentary, light suffering is producing for us an eternal weight of glory far beyond all comparison
(Hos 2:6)	Therefore, I will soon fence her in with thorns; I will wall her in so that she cannot find her way.
(Hos 2:7)	Then she will pursue her lovers, but she will not catch them; she will seek them, but she will not find them. Then she will say, “I will go back to my husband, because I was better off then than I am now.”
(Rev 3:19)	All those I love, I rebuke and discipline. So be earnest and repent!
(Phil 1:19)	for I know that this will turn out for my deliverance through your prayers and the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ.
(Dan 11:35)	Even some of the wise will stumble, resulting in their refinement, purification, and cleansing until the time of the end, for it is still for the appointed time.
(Jas 1:3)	because you know that the testing of your faith produces endurance.
(Jas 1:12)	Happy is the one who endures testing, because when he has proven to be genuine, he will receive the crown of life that God promised to those who love him.
(Heb 12:6)	“For the Lord disciplines the one he loves and chastises every son he accepts.”
(Heb 12:7)	Endure your suffering as discipline; God is treating you as sons. For what son is there that a father does not discipline?
(Heb 12:10)	For they disciplined us for a little while as seemed good to them, but he does so for our benefit, that we may share his holiness.
(Heb 12:11)	Now all discipline seems painful at the time, not joyful. But later it produces the fruit of peace and righteousness for those trained by it.
(Dan 12:10)	Many will be purified, made clean, and refined, but the wicked will go on being wicked. None of the wicked will understand, though the wise will understand.
(1Pet 1:7)	Such trials show the proven character of your faith, which is much more valuable than gold – gold that is tested by fire, even though it is passing away – and will bring praise and glory and honor when Jesus Christ is revealed.
(Zech 13:9)	Then I will bring the remaining third into the fire; I will refine them like silver is refined and will test them like gold is tested. They will call on my name and I will answer; I will say, ‘These are my people,’ and they will say, ‘The Lord is my God.’”
＊	16. GRACE TO THE CHILDREN OF ISRAEL
(Deut 30:6)	The Lord your God will also cleanse your heart and the hearts of your descendants so that you may love him with all your mind and being and so that you may live.
(Gen 17:7)	I will confirm my covenant as a perpetual covenant between me and you. It will extend to your descendants after you throughout their generations. I will be your God and the God of your descendants after you.
(Gen 17:9)	Then God said to Abraham, “As for you, you must keep the covenantal requirement I am imposing on you and your descendants after you throughout their generations.
(1Cor 7:14)	For the unbelieving husband is sanctified because of the wife, and the unbelieving wife because of her husband. Otherwise your children are unclean, but now they are holy.
(Acts 2:39)	For the promise is for you and your children, and for all who are far away, as many as the Lord our God will call to himself.”
(Acts 16:31)	They replied, “Believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved, you and your household.”
(Isa 54:13)	All your children will be followers of the Lord, and your children will enjoy great prosperity.
(Mark 10:14)	But when Jesus saw this, he was indignant and said to them, “Let the little children come to me and do not try to stop them, for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these.
(Mark 10:16)	After he took the children in his arms, he placed his hands on them and blessed them.
(Isa 44:3)	For I will pour water on the parched ground and cause streams to flow on the dry land. I will pour my Spirit on your offspring and my blessing on your children.
(Isa 44:5)	One will say, ‘I belong to the Lord,’ and another will use the name ‘Jacob.’ One will write on his hand, ‘The Lord’s,’ and use the name ‘Israel.’”
＊	17. AN INTEREST IN GOD
＊	AS OUR GOD
(Gen 17:7)	I will confirm my covenant as a perpetual covenant between me and you. It will extend to your descendants after you throughout their generations. I will be your God and the God of your descendants after you.
(Rev 21:3)	And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying: “Look! The residence of God is among human beings. He will live among them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them.
(Jer 30:22)	Then you will again be my people and I will be your God.
(2Cor 6:16)	And what mutual agreement does the temple of God have with idols? For we are the temple of the living God, just as God said, “I will live in them and will walk among them, and I will be their God, and they will be my people.”
(Heb 8:10)	“For this is the covenant that I will establish with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord. I will put my laws in their minds and I will inscribe them on their hearts. And I will be their God and they will be my people.
(Lev 26:12)	I will walk among you, and I will be your God and you will be my people.
(Ps 48:14)	For God, our God, is our defender forever! He guides us!
(Isa 41:10)	Don’t be afraid, for I am with you! Don’t be frightened, for I am your God! I strengthen you – yes, I help you – yes, I uphold you with my saving right hand!
(Isa 54:5)	For your husband is the one who made you – the Lord of Heaven’s Armies is his name. He is your protector, the Holy One of Israel. He is called “God of the entire earth.”
(Ezek 34:24)	I, the Lord, will be their God, and my servant David will be prince among them; I, the Lord, have spoken!
(Ezek 34:31)	And you, my sheep, the sheep of my pasture, are my people, and I am your God, declares the Sovereign Lord.’”
(Heb 11:16)	But as it is, they aspire to a better land, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared a city for them.
＊	OUR PORTION
(Gen 15:1)	After these things the Lord’s message came to Abram in a vision: “Fear not, Abram! I am your shield and the one who will reward you in great abundance.”
(Ps 16:5)	Lord, you give me stability and prosperity; you make my future secure.
(Lam 3:24)	“My portion is the Lord,” I have said to myself, so I will put my hope in him.
(Ps 73:26)	My flesh and my heart may grow weak, but God always protects my heart and gives me stability.
＊	OUR GLORY
(Isa 28:5)	At that time the Lord of Heaven’s Armies will become a beautiful crown and a splendid diadem for the remnant of his people.
＊	HIS PRESENCE WITH US
(Ps 140:13)	Certainly the godly will give thanks to your name; the morally upright will live in your presence.
(Exod 33:14)	And the Lord said, “My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest.”
(Num 23:21)	He has not looked on iniquity in Jacob, nor has he seen trouble in Israel. The Lord their God is with them; his acclamation as king is among them.
(Isa 41:10)	Don’t be afraid, for I am with you! Don’t be frightened, for I am your God! I strengthen you – yes, I help you – yes, I uphold you with my saving right hand!
(Ezek 34:30)	Then they will know that I, the Lord their God, am with them, and that they are my people, the house of Israel, declares the Sovereign Lord.
(2Chr 15:2)	He met Asa and told him, “Listen to me, Asa and all Judah and Benjamin! The Lord is with you when you are loyal to him. If you seek him, he will respond to you, but if you reject him, he will reject you.
(Deut 31:8)	The Lord is indeed going before you – he will be with you; he will not fail you or abandon you. Do not be afraid or discouraged!”
(John 14:23)	Jesus replied, “If anyone loves me, he will obey my word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and take up residence with him.
(Joel 2:27)	You will be convinced that I am in the midst of Israel. I am the Lord your God; there is no other. My people will never again be put to shame.
＊	HIS LOVE
(Ps 4:3)	Realize that the Lord shows the godly special favor; the Lord responds when I cry out to him.
(Deut 7:13)	He will love and bless you, and make you numerous. He will bless you with many children, with the produce of your soil, your grain, your new wine, your oil, the offspring of your oxen, and the young of your flocks in the land which he promised your ancestors to give you.
(Ps 42:8)	By day the Lord decrees his loyal love, and by night he gives me a song, a prayer to the God of my life.
(Ps 146:8)	The Lord gives sight to the blind. The Lord lifts up all who are bent over. The Lord loves the godly.
(Hos 14:4)	“I will heal their waywardness and love them freely, for my anger will turn away from them.
(Prov 15:9)	The Lord abhors the way of the wicked, but he will love those who pursue righteousness.
(Isa 62:4)	You will no longer be called, “Abandoned,” and your land will no longer be called “Desolate.” Indeed, you will be called “My Delight is in Her,” and your land “Married.” For the Lord will take delight in you, and your land will be married to him.
(Isa 62:5)	As a young man marries a young woman, so your sons will marry you. As a bridegroom rejoices over a bride, so your God will rejoice over you.
(Isa 43:4)	Since you are precious and special in my sight, and I love you, I will hand over people in place of you, nations in place of your life.
(Jer 31:3)	In a far-off land the Lord will manifest himself to them. He will say to them, ‘I have loved you with an everlasting love. That is why I have continued to be faithful to you.
(Jer 32:41)	I will take delight in doing good to them. I will faithfully and wholeheartedly plant them firmly in the land.’
(Zeph 3:17)	The Lord your God is in your midst; he is a warrior who can deliver. He takes great delight in you; he renews you by his love; he shouts for joy over you.”
(Eph 2:4)	But God, being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us,
(Rom 9:25)	As he also says in Hosea: “I will call those who were not my people, ‘My people,’ and I will call her who was unloved, ‘My beloved.’”
(Ps 103:4)	who delivers your life from the Pit, who crowns you with his loyal love and compassion,
(John 16:27)	For the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me and have believed that I came from God.
(2Thess 2:16)	Now may our Lord Jesus Christ himself and God our Father, who loved us and by grace gave us eternal comfort and good hope,
(John 17:23)	I in them and you in me – that they may be completely one, so that the world will know that you sent me, and you have loved them just as you have loved me.
(John 17:26)	I made known your name to them, and I will continue to make it known, so that the love you have loved me with may be in them, and I may be in them.”
(1John 4:10)	In this is love: not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son to be the atoning sacrifice for our sins.
(1John 4:16)	And we have come to know and to believe the love that God has in us. God is love, and the one who resides in love resides in God, and God resides in him.
(1John 4:19)	We love because he loved us first.
＊	HIS MERCY
(Isa 60:10)	Foreigners will rebuild your walls; their kings will serve you. Even though I struck you down in my anger, I will restore my favor and have compassion on you.
(Deut 4:31)	(for he is a merciful God), he will not let you down or destroy you, for he cannot forget the covenant with your ancestors that he confirmed by oath to them.
(Jer 31:20)	Indeed, the people of Israel are my dear children. They are the children I take delight in. For even though I must often rebuke them, I still remember them with fondness. So I am deeply moved with pity for them and will surely have compassion on them. I, the Lord, affirm it!
(Hos 2:23)	Then I will plant her as my own in the land. I will have pity on ‘No Pity’ (Lo-Ruhamah). I will say to ‘Not My People’ (Lo-Ammi), ‘You are my people!’ And he will say, ‘You are my God!’”
(Isa 48:9)	For the sake of my reputation I hold back my anger; for the sake of my prestige I restrain myself from destroying you.
(Isa 30:18)	For this reason the Lord is ready to show you mercy; he sits on his throne, ready to have compassion on you. Indeed, the Lord is a just God; all who wait for him in faith will be blessed.
(Ps 103:13)	As a father has compassion on his children, so the Lord has compassion on his faithful followers.
(Ps 103:17)	But the Lord continually shows loyal love to his faithful followers, and is faithful to their descendants,
(Hos 11:8)	How can I give you up, O Ephraim? How can I surrender you, O Israel? How can I treat you like Admah? How can I make you like Zeboiim? I have had a change of heart! All my tender compassions are aroused!
(Hos 11:9)	I cannot carry out my fierce anger! I cannot totally destroy Ephraim! Because I am God, and not man – the Holy One among you – I will not come in wrath!
(Job 11:6)	and reveal to you the secrets of wisdom – for true wisdom has two sides – so that you would know that God has forgiven some of your sins.
(Exod 33:19)	And the Lord said, “I will make all my goodness pass before your face, and I will proclaim the Lord by name before you; I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, I will show mercy to whom I will show mercy.”
＊	HIS HELP
(Ps 46:11)	The Lord of Heaven’s Armies is on our side! The God of Jacob is our protector! (Selah)
(Rom 8:31)	What then shall we say about these things? If God is for us, who can be against us?
(Hos 13:9)	I will destroy you, O Israel! Who is there to help you?
(Ps 40:17)	I am oppressed and needy! May the Lord pay attention to me! You are my helper and my deliverer! O my God, do not delay!
(Deut 33:27)	The everlasting God is a refuge, and underneath you are his eternal arms; he has driven out enemies before you, and has said, “Destroy!”
(Deut 33:29)	You have joy, Israel! Who is like you? You are a people delivered by the Lord, your protective shield and your exalted sword. May your enemies cringe before you; may you trample on their backs.
(Heb 13:6)	So we can say with confidence, “The Lord is my helper, and I will not be afraid. What can people do to me?”
(Isa 41:10)	Don’t be afraid, for I am with you! Don’t be frightened, for I am your God! I strengthen you – yes, I help you – yes, I uphold you with my saving right hand!
(Isa 41:13)	For I am the Lord your God, the one who takes hold of your right hand, who says to you, ‘Don’t be afraid, I am helping you.’
(Isa 41:14)	Don’t be afraid, despised insignificant Jacob, men of Israel. I am helping you,” says the Lord, your protector, the Holy One of Israel.
＊	HIS CARE
(Zech 2:8)	For the Lord of Heaven’s Armies says to me that for his own glory he has sent me to the nations that plundered you – for anyone who touches you touches the pupil of his eye.
(1Pet 5:7)	by casting all your cares on him because he cares for you.
(Ps 33:18)	Look, the Lord takes notice of his loyal followers, those who wait for him to demonstrate his faithfulness
(Isa 46:3)	“Listen to me, O family of Jacob, all you who are left from the family of Israel, you who have been carried from birth, you who have been supported from the time you left the womb.
(Isa 46:4)	Even when you are old, I will take care of you, even when you have gray hair, I will carry you. I made you and I will support you; I will carry you and rescue you.
(Luke 21:18)	Yet not a hair of your head will perish.
(Matt 10:30)	Even all the hairs on your head are numbered.
(Isa 63:9)	Through all that they suffered, he suffered too. The messenger sent from his very presence delivered them. In his love and mercy he protected them; he lifted them up and carried them throughout ancient times.
(Deut 32:11)	Like an eagle that stirs up its nest, that hovers over its young, so the Lord spread out his wings and took him, he lifted him up on his pinions.
(Deut 32:12)	The Lord alone was guiding him, no foreign god was with him.
＊	HIS COVENANT WITH HIS PEOPLE
(Isa 55:3)	Pay attention and come to me! Listen, so you can live! Then I will make an unconditional covenantal promise to you, just like the reliable covenantal promises I made to David.
(2Sam 23:5)	My dynasty is approved by God, for he has made a perpetual covenant with me, arranged in all its particulars and secured. He always delivers me, and brings all I desire to fruition.
(Hos 2:19)	I will commit myself to you forever; I will commit myself to you in righteousness and justice, in steadfast love and tender compassion.
(Hos 2:20)	I will commit myself to you in faithfulness; then you will acknowledge the Lord.”
＊	GOD WILL NOT FORSAKE THEM
(Isa 44:21)	Remember these things, O Jacob, O Israel, for you are my servant. I formed you to be my servant; O Israel, I will not forget you!
(Lev 26:11)	“‘I will put my tabernacle in your midst and I will not abhor you.
(Ps 94:14)	Certainly the Lord does not forsake his people; he does not abandon the nation that belongs to him.
(Isa 49:14)	“Zion said, ‘The Lord has abandoned me, the Lord has forgotten me.’
(Isa 49:16)	Look, I have inscribed your name on my palms; your walls are constantly before me.
(Isa 54:9)	“As far as I am concerned, this is like in Noah’s time, when I vowed that the waters of Noah’s flood would never again cover the earth. In the same way I have vowed that I will not be angry at you or shout at you.
(Isa 54:10)	Even if the mountains are removed and the hills displaced, my devotion will not be removed from you, nor will my covenant of friendship be displaced,” says the Lord, the one who has compassion on you.
(Heb 13:5)	Your conduct must be free from the love of money and you must be content with what you have, for he has said, “I will never leave you and I will never abandon you.”
(Ps 9:10)	Your loyal followers trust in you, for you, Lord, do not abandon those who seek your help.
(Isa 42:16)	I will lead the blind along an unfamiliar way; I will guide them down paths they have never traveled. I will turn the darkness in front of them into light, and level out the rough ground. This is what I will do for them. I will not abandon them.
(Ps 37:28)	For the Lord promotes justice, and never abandons his faithful followers. They are permanently secure, but the children of evil men are wiped out.
(Lam 3:31)	For the Lord will not reject us forever.
(Lam 3:32)	Though he causes us grief, he then has compassion on us according to the abundance of his loyal kindness.
(Jer 32:40)	I will make a lasting covenant with them that I will never stop doing good to them. I will fill their hearts and minds with respect for me so that they will never again turn away from me.
＊	18. AN INTEREST IN CHRIST
(Isa 55:4)	Look, I made him a witness to nations, a ruler and commander of nations.”
(Isa 9:6)	For a child has been born to us, a son has been given to us. He shoulders responsibility and is called: Amazing Adviser, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.
(Song 2:16)	My lover is mine and I am his; he grazes among the lilies.
(John 6:37)	Everyone whom the Father gives me will come to me, and the one who comes to me I will never send away.
(John 3:16)	For this is the way God loved the world: He gave his one and only Son, so that everyone who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life.
(Ezek 34:23)	I will set one shepherd over them, and he will feed them – namely, my servant David. He will feed them and will be their shepherd.
(Mal 4:2)	But for you who respect my name, the sun of vindication will rise with healing wings, and you will skip about like calves released from the stall.
(Isa 42:6)	“I, the Lord, officially commission you; I take hold of your hand. I protect you and make you a covenant mediator for people, and a light to the nations,
＊	ALL GRACE FROM CHRIST
(John 1:16)	For we have all received from his fullness one gracious gift after another.
(John 1:17)	For the law was given through Moses, but grace and truth came about through Jesus Christ.
(Eph 1:23)	Now the church is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all.
(Isa 45:24)	they will say about me, “Yes, the Lord is a powerful deliverer.”’” All who are angry at him will cower before him.
(1Cor 1:30)	He is the reason you have a relationship with Christ Jesus, who became for us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification and redemption,
(Acts 5:31)	God exalted him to his right hand as Leader and Savior, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins.
＊	REDEMPTION BY CHRIST
(Isa 49:9)	You will say to the prisoners, ‘Come out,’ and to those who are in dark dungeons, ‘Emerge.’ They will graze beside the roads; on all the slopes they will find pasture.
(Isa 42:7)	to open blind eyes, to release prisoners from dungeons, those who live in darkness from prisons.
(1Pet 1:18)	You know that from your empty way of life inherited from your ancestors you were ransomed – not by perishable things like silver or gold,
(1Pet 1:19)	but by precious blood like that of an unblemished and spotless lamb, namely Christ.
(Mark 10:45)	For even the Son of Man did not come to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.”
(Gal 3:13)	Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us (because it is written, “Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree”)
(Eph 1:7)	In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our offenses, according to the riches of his grace
(Eph 5:2)	and live in love, just as Christ also loved us and gave himself for us, a sacrificial and fragrant offering to God.
(Gal 4:4)	But when the appropriate time had come, God sent out his Son, born of a woman, born under the law,
(Gal 4:5)	to redeem those who were under the law, so that we may be adopted as sons with full rights.
(Heb 9:14)	how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our consciences from dead works to worship the living God.
(Heb 9:15)	And so he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the eternal inheritance he has promised, since he died to set them free from the violations committed under the first covenant.
(1Cor 5:7)	Clean out the old yeast so that you may be a new batch of dough – you are, in fact, without yeast. For Christ, our Passover lamb, has been sacrificed.
(Rev 5:9)	They were singing a new song: “You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals because you were killed, and at the cost of your own blood you have purchased for God persons from every tribe, language, people, and nation.
＊	LIFE FROM HIM
(John 14:19)	In a little while the world will not see me any longer, but you will see me; because I live, you will live too.
(John 6:57)	Just as the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, so the one who consumes me will live because of me.
(Col 3:3)	for you have died and your life is hidden with Christ in God.
(Col 3:4)	When Christ (who is your life) appears, then you too will be revealed in glory with him.
(Gal 2:20)	I have been crucified with Christ, and it is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. So the life I now live in the body, I live because of the faithfulness of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.
(Eph 2:1)	And although you were dead in your offenses and sins,
(Eph 2:5)	even though we were dead in offenses, made us alive together with Christ – by grace you are saved! –
(Eph 2:6)	and he raised us up together with him and seated us together with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus,
(1John 5:12)	The one who has the Son has this eternal life; the one who does not have the Son of God does not have this eternal life.
(John 10:10)	The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy; I have come so that they may have life, and may have it abundantly.
(John 5:21)	For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whomever he wishes.
(2Cor 13:4)	For indeed he was crucified by reason of weakness, but he lives because of God’s power. For we also are weak in him, but we will live together with him, because of God’s power toward you.
(Rom 6:8)	Now if we died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him.
(Rom 6:11)	So you too consider yourselves dead to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus.
＊	HIS INTERCESSION
(Isa 53:12)	So I will assign him a portion with the multitudes, he will divide the spoils of victory with the powerful, because he willingly submitted to death and was numbered with the rebels, when he lifted up the sin of many and intervened on behalf of the rebels.”
(Heb 7:25)	So he is able to save completely those who come to God through him, because he always lives to intercede for them.
(Rom 8:34)	Who is the one who will condemn? Christ is the one who died (and more than that, he was raised), who is at the right hand of God, and who also is interceding for us.
(Heb 9:24)	For Christ did not enter a sanctuary made with hands – the representation of the true sanctuary – but into heaven itself, and he appears now in God’s presence for us.
(Heb 4:14)	Therefore since we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast to our confession.
(Heb 4:16)	Therefore let us confidently approach the throne of grace to receive mercy and find grace whenever we need help.
＊	HIS LOVE
(John 15:9)	“Just as the Father has loved me, I have also loved you; remain in my love.
(John 13:1)	Just before the Passover Feast, Jesus knew that his time had come to depart from this world to the Father. Having loved his own who were in the world, he now loved them to the very end.
(John 13:34)	“I give you a new commandment – to love one another. Just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another.
(Rev 3:9)	Listen! I am going to make those people from the synagogue of Satan – who say they are Jews yet are not, but are lying – Look, I will make them come and bow down at your feet and acknowledge that I have loved you.
(Ps 45:11)	Then the king will be attracted by your beauty. After all, he is your master! Submit to him!
(Eph 5:2)	and live in love, just as Christ also loved us and gave himself for us, a sacrificial and fragrant offering to God.
(Song 7:10)	I am my beloved’s, and he desires me!
(Song 4:9)	You have stolen my heart, my sister, my bride! You have stolen my heart with one glance of your eyes, with one jewel of your necklace.
(Rev 1:5)	and from Jesus Christ – the faithful witness, the firstborn from among the dead, the ruler over the kings of the earth. To the one who loves us and has set us free from our sins at the cost of his own blood
(Rom 8:37)	No, in all these things we have complete victory through him who loved us!
(Song 2:4)	He brought me into the banquet hall, and he looked at me lovingly.
(Song 2:6)	His left hand is under my head, and his right hand embraces me.
＊	HIS CARE OF HIS CHURCH
(Rev 2:1)	“To the angel of the church in Ephesus, write the following: “This is the solemn pronouncement of the one who has a firm grasp on the seven stars in his right hand – the one who walks among the seven golden lampstands:
(Isa 40:11)	Like a shepherd he tends his flock; he gathers up the lambs with his arm; he carries them close to his heart; he leads the ewes along.
(Isa 42:3)	A crushed reed he will not break, a dim wick he will not extinguish; he will faithfully make just decrees.
(Eph 5:25)	Husbands, love your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave himself for her
(Eph 5:27)	so that he may present the church to himself as glorious – not having a stain or wrinkle, or any such blemish, but holy and blameless.
(Eph 5:29)	For no one has ever hated his own body, but he feeds it and takes care of it, just as Christ also does the church,
＊	HIS PRESENCE WITH HIS PEOPLE
(1John 1:3)	What we have seen and heard we announce to you too, so that you may have fellowship with us (and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ).
(John 14:18)	“I will not abandon you as orphans, I will come to you.
(John 14:21)	The person who has my commandments and obeys them is the one who loves me. The one who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and will reveal myself to him.”
(Rev 3:20)	Listen! I am standing at the door and knocking! If anyone hears my voice and opens the door I will come into his home and share a meal with him, and he with me.
＊	19. PROMISES OF THE SPIRIT
(Prov 1:23)	You should respond to my rebuke. Then I would pour out my thoughts to you; I would make my words known to you.
(Isa 32:15)	This desolation will continue until new life is poured out on us from heaven. Then the wilderness will become an orchard and the orchard will be considered a forest.
(Ezek 36:27)	I will put my Spirit within you; I will take the initiative and you will obey my statutes and carefully observe my regulations.
(Luke 11:13)	If you then, although you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!”
(Isa 59:21)	“As for me, this is my promise to them,” says the Lord. “My Spirit, who is upon you, and my words, which I have placed in your mouth, will not depart from your mouth or from the mouths of your children and descendants from this time forward,” says the Lord.
(John 4:10)	Jesus answered her, “If you had known the gift of God and who it is who said to you, ‘Give me some water to drink,’ you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water.”
(John 4:14)	But whoever drinks some of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again, but the water that I will give him will become in him a fountain of water springing up to eternal life.”
(2Tim 1:14)	Protect that good thing entrusted to you, through the Holy Spirit who lives within us.
(Gal 3:14)	in order that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham would come to the Gentiles, so that we could receive the promise of the Spirit by faith.
(1Cor 2:12)	Now we have not received the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, so that we may know the things that are freely given to us by God.
(John 7:38)	let the one who believes in me drink. Just as the scripture says, ‘From within him will flow rivers of living water.’”
(John 7:39)	(Now he said this about the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were going to receive, for the Spirit had not yet been given, because Jesus was not yet glorified.)
(John 14:16)	Then I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Advocate to be with you forever –
(John 14:17)	the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot accept, because it does not see him or know him. But you know him, because he resides with you and will be in you.
＊	HIS TEACHING
(Luke 12:12)	for the Holy Spirit will teach you at that moment what you must say.”
(1Cor 2:10)	God has revealed these to us by the Spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, even the deep things of God.
(John 16:13)	But when he, the Spirit of truth, comes, he will guide you into all truth. For he will not speak on his own authority, but will speak whatever he hears, and will tell you what is to come.
(1John 2:27)	Now as for you, the anointing that you received from him resides in you, and you have no need for anyone to teach you. But as his anointing teaches you about all things, it is true and is not a lie. Just as it has taught you, you reside in him.
＊	HELP IN PRAYER
(Gal 4:6)	And because you are sons, God sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, who calls “Abba! Father!”
(Zech 12:10)	“I will pour out on the kingship of David and the population of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and supplication so that they will look to me, the one they have pierced. They will lament for him as one laments for an only son, and there will be a bitter cry for him like the bitter cry for a firstborn.
(Rom 8:15)	For you did not receive the spirit of slavery leading again to fear, but you received the Spirit of adoption, by whom we cry, “Abba, Father.”
(Rom 8:26)	In the same way, the Spirit helps us in our weakness, for we do not know how we should pray, but the Spirit himself intercedes for us with inexpressible groanings.
(Rom 8:27)	And he who searches our hearts knows the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes on behalf of the saints according to God’s will.
(Ps 10:17)	Lord, you have heard the request of the oppressed; you make them feel secure because you listen to their prayer.
＊	TO WITNESS OUR ADOPTION
(Rom 8:16)	The Spirit himself bears witness to our spirit that we are God’s children.
＊	TO SEAL OUR REDEMPTION
(2Cor 1:22)	who also sealed us and gave us the Spirit in our hearts as a down payment.
(Eph 4:30)	And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption.
(2Cor 5:5)	Now the one who prepared us for this very purpose is God, who gave us the Spirit as a down payment.
(Rom 5:5)	And hope does not disappoint, because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts through the Holy Spirit who was given to us.
(Eph 1:13)	And when you heard the word of truth (the gospel of your salvation) – when you believed in Christ – you were marked with the seal of the promised Holy Spirit,
(Eph 1:14)	who is the down payment of our inheritance, until the redemption of God’s own possession, to the praise of his glory.
＊	TO BE OUR COMFORTER
(John 14:16)	Then I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Advocate to be with you forever –
(John 14:18)	“I will not abandon you as orphans, I will come to you.
(Acts 9:31)	Then the church throughout Judea, Galilee, and Samaria experienced peace and thus was strengthened. Living in the fear of the Lord and in the encouragement of the Holy Spirit, the church increased in numbers.
＊	THE JOYS OF THE HOLY GHOST
(Rom 14:17)	For the kingdom of God does not consist of food and drink, but righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit.
＊	20. THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS
(Ps 34:7)	The Lord’s angel camps around the Lord’s loyal followers and delivers them.
(Heb 1:14)	Are they not all ministering spirits, sent out to serve those who will inherit salvation?
(Ps 91:11)	For he will order his angels to protect you in all you do.
(Ps 91:12)	They will lift you up in their hands, so you will not slip and fall on a stone.
(Matt 18:10)	“See that you do not disdain one of these little ones. For I tell you that their angels in heaven always see the face of my Father in heaven.
＊	21. THAT WE SHALL BE KINGS AND PRIESTS UNTO GOD
(Rev 1:6)	and has appointed us as a kingdom, as priests serving his God and Father – to him be the glory and the power for ever and ever! Amen.
(Exod 19:6)	and you will be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation.’ These are the words that you will speak to the Israelites.”
(Rev 5:10)	You have appointed them as a kingdom and priests to serve our God, and they will reign on the earth.”
(1Pet 2:9)	But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people of his own, so that you may proclaim the virtues of the one who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light.
＊	22. PEACE OF CONSCIENCE, COMFORT, AND HOPE
＊	PEACE OF CONSCIENCE
(Isa 32:17)	Fairness will produce peace and result in lasting security.
(Ps 25:13)	They experience his favor; their descendants inherit the land.
(Luke 7:50)	He said to the woman, “Your faith has saved you; go in peace.”
(Ps 85:8)	I will listen to what God the Lord says. For he will make peace with his people, his faithful followers. Yet they must not return to their foolish ways.
(Ps 147:3)	He heals the brokenhearted, and bandages their wounds.
(2Thess 3:16)	Now may the Lord of peace himself give you peace at all times and in every way. The Lord be with you all.
(Col 3:15)	Let the peace of Christ be in control in your heart (for you were in fact called as one body to this peace), and be thankful.
(John 14:27)	“Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you; I do not give it to you as the world does. Do not let your hearts be distressed or lacking in courage.
(Isa 57:19)	I am the one who gives them reason to celebrate. Complete prosperity is available both to those who are far away and those who are nearby,” says the Lord, “and I will heal them.
(Phil 4:7)	And the peace of God that surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus.
＊	COMFORT
(Isa 12:1)	At that time you will say: “I praise you, O Lord, for even though you were angry with me, your anger subsided, and you consoled me.
(John 14:18)	“I will not abandon you as orphans, I will come to you.
(Isa 49:13)	Shout for joy, O sky! Rejoice, O earth! Let the mountains give a joyful shout! For the Lord consoles his people and shows compassion to the oppressed.
(Isa 57:18)	I have seen their behavior, but I will heal them. I will lead them, and I will provide comfort to them and those who mourn with them.
(Jer 6:16)	The Lord said to his people: “You are standing at the crossroads. So consider your path. Ask where the old, reliable paths are. Ask where the path is that leads to blessing and follow it. If you do, you will find rest for your souls.” But they said, “We will not follow it!”
(Isa 54:7)	“For a short time I abandoned you, but with great compassion I will gather you.
(Isa 54:8)	In a burst of anger I rejected you momentarily, but with lasting devotion I will have compassion on you,” says your protector, the Lord.
(Isa 61:1)	The Spirit of the Sovereign Lord is upon me, because the Lord has chosen me. He has commissioned me to encourage the poor, to help the brokenhearted, to decree the release of captives, and the freeing of prisoners,
(Isa 61:3)	to strengthen those who mourn in Zion, by giving them a turban, instead of ashes, oil symbolizing joy, instead of mourning, a garment symbolizing praise, instead of discouragement. They will be called oaks of righteousness, trees planted by the Lord to reveal his splendor.
(Isa 51:12)	“I, I am the one who consoles you. Why are you afraid of mortal men, of mere human beings who are as short-lived as grass?
(Prov 14:14)	The backslider will be paid back from his own ways, but a good person will be rewarded for his.
(2Cor 7:6)	But God, who encourages the downhearted, encouraged us by the arrival of Titus.
(2Thess 2:16)	Now may our Lord Jesus Christ himself and God our Father, who loved us and by grace gave us eternal comfort and good hope,
(2Thess 2:17)	encourage your hearts and strengthen you in every good thing you do or say.
(Isa 66:11)	For you will nurse from her satisfying breasts and be nourished; you will feed with joy from her milk-filled breasts.
(Isa 66:13)	As a mother consoles a child, so I will console you, and you will be consoled over Jerusalem.”
(2Cor 1:3)	Blessed is the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort,
(2Cor 1:4)	who comforts us in all our troubles so that we may be able to comfort those experiencing any trouble with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God.
＊	HOPE
(1John 3:3)	And everyone who has this hope focused on him purifies himself, just as Jesus is pure).
(Ps 31:24)	Be strong and confident, all you who wait on the Lord!
(Ps 42:11)	Why are you depressed, O my soul? Why are you upset? Wait for God! For I will again give thanks to my God for his saving intervention.
(Heb 6:18)	so that we who have found refuge in him may find strong encouragement to hold fast to the hope set before us through two unchangeable things, since it is impossible for God to lie.
(Heb 6:19)	We have this hope as an anchor for the soul, sure and steadfast, which reaches inside behind the curtain,
(1Pet 1:3)	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! By his great mercy he gave us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
(1Pet 1:13)	Therefore, get your minds ready for action by being fully sober, and set your hope completely on the grace that will be brought to you when Jesus Christ is revealed.
(1Pet 1:21)	Through him you now trust in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God.
(Ps 71:5)	For you are my hope; O Sovereign Lord, I have trusted in you since I was young.
(Ps 94:19)	When worries threaten to overwhelm me, your soothing touch makes me happy.
(Col 1:5)	Your faith and love have arisen from the hope laid up for you in heaven, which you have heard about in the message of truth, the gospel
(Col 1:23)	if indeed you remain in the faith, established and firm, without shifting from the hope of the gospel that you heard. This gospel has also been preached in all creation under heaven, and I, Paul, have become its servant.
(Col 1:27)	God wanted to make known to them the glorious riches of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory.
＊	23. DELIGHT AND JOY IN GOD
(Neh 8:10)	He said to them, “Go and eat delicacies and drink sweet drinks and send portions to those for whom nothing is prepared. For this day is holy to our Lord. Do not grieve, for the joy of the Lord is your strength.”
(Isa 55:12)	Indeed you will go out with joy; you will be led along in peace; the mountains and hills will give a joyful shout before you, and all the trees in the field will clap their hands.
(Ps 68:3)	But the godly are happy; they rejoice before God and are overcome with joy.
(Ps 4:7)	You make me happier than those who have abundant grain and wine.
(Ps 64:10)	The godly will rejoice in the Lord and take shelter in him. All the morally upright will boast.
(Ps 63:5)	As if with choice meat you satisfy my soul. My mouth joyfully praises you,
(Isa 65:14)	Look, my servants will shout for joy as happiness fills their hearts! But you will cry out as sorrow fills your hearts; you will wail because your spirits will be crushed.
(Ps 118:15)	They celebrate deliverance in the tents of the godly. The Lord’s right hand conquers,
(Ps 97:11)	The godly bask in the light; the morally upright experience joy.
(Job 22:26)	Surely then you will delight yourself in the Almighty, and will lift up your face toward God.
(Ps 126:5)	Those who shed tears as they plant will shout for joy when they reap the harvest.
(Ps 126:6)	The one who weeps as he walks along, carrying his bag of seed, will certainly come in with a shout of joy, carrying his sheaves of grain.
(Ps 89:15)	How blessed are the people who worship you! O Lord, they experience your favor.
(Ps 89:16)	They rejoice in your name all day long, and are vindicated by your justice.
(Isa 61:7)	Instead of shame, you will get a double portion; instead of humiliation, they will rejoice over the land they receive. Yes, they will possess a double portion in their land and experience lasting joy.
(Isa 61:10)	I will greatly rejoice in the Lord; I will be overjoyed because of my God. For he clothes me in garments of deliverance; he puts on me a robe symbolizing vindication. I look like a bridegroom when he wears a turban as a priest would; I look like a bride when she puts on her jewelry.
(Rom 5:2)	through whom we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in the hope of God’s glory.
(Isa 41:16)	You will winnow them and the wind will blow them away; the wind will scatter them. You will rejoice in the Lord; you will boast in the Holy One of Israel.
(Ps 33:21)	For our hearts rejoice in him, for we trust in his holy name.
(Song 1:4)	Draw me after you; let us hurry! May the king bring me into his bedroom chambers! We will rejoice and delight in you; we will praise your love more than wine. How rightly the young women adore you!
(John 16:22)	So also you have sorrow now, but I will see you again, and your hearts will rejoice, and no one will take your joy away from you.
(Isa 9:3)	You have enlarged the nation; you give them great joy. They rejoice in your presence as harvesters rejoice; as warriors celebrate when they divide up the plunder.
(1Pet 1:8)	You have not seen him, but you love him. You do not see him now but you believe in him, and so you rejoice with an indescribable and glorious joy,
(Isa 51:11)	Those whom the Lord has ransomed will return; they will enter Zion with a happy shout. Unending joy will crown them, happiness and joy will overwhelm them; grief and suffering will disappear.
(Hab 3:18)	I will rejoice because of the Lord; I will be happy because of the God who delivers me!
(John 15:11)	I have told you these things so that my joy may be in you, and your joy may be complete.
＊	24. SUPPORT IN DEATH
(Prov 14:32)	An evil person will be thrown down through his wickedness, but a righteous person takes refuge in his integrity.
(Ps 37:37)	Take note of the one who has integrity! Observe the upright! For the one who promotes peace has a future.
(Ps 49:15)	But God will rescue my life from the power of Sheol; certainly he will pull me to safety. (Selah)
(Ps 48:14)	For God, our God, is our defender forever! He guides us!
(Ps 73:26)	My flesh and my heart may grow weak, but God always protects my heart and gives me stability.
(Rom 8:38)	For I am convinced that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor heavenly rulers, nor things that are present, nor things to come, nor powers,
(Rom 8:39)	nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.
(Isa 25:8)	he will swallow up death permanently. The Sovereign Lord will wipe away the tears from every face, and remove his people’s disgrace from all the earth. Indeed, the Lord has announced it!
(2Cor 4:16)	Therefore we do not despair, but even if our physical body is wearing away, our inner person is being renewed day by day.
(2Tim 1:12)	Because of this, in fact, I suffer as I do. But I am not ashamed, because I know the one in whom my faith is set and I am convinced that he is able to protect what has been entrusted to me until that day.
(Ps 23:4)	Even when I must walk through the darkest valley, I fear no danger, for you are with me; your rod and your staff reassure me.
(Hos 13:14)	Will I deliver them from the power of Sheol? No, I will not! Will I redeem them from death? No, I will not! O Death, bring on your plagues! O Sheol, bring on your destruction! My eyes will not show any compassion!
(1Cor 15:55)	“Where, O death, is your victory? Where, O death, is your sting?”
(1Cor 15:57)	But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ!
(Heb 2:14)	Therefore, since the children share in flesh and blood, he likewise shared in their humanity, so that through death he could destroy the one who holds the power of death (that is, the devil),
(Heb 2:15)	and set free those who were held in slavery all their lives by their fear of death.
＊	Chapter 4
＊	PROMISES OF BLESSINGS IN THE FUTURE WORLD
＊	1. DELIVERANCE FROM HELL
(Isa 45:17)	Israel will be delivered once and for all by the Lord; you will never again be ashamed or humiliated.
(Prov 10:2)	Treasures gained by wickedness do not profit, but righteousness delivers from death.
(Prov 11:4)	Wealth does not profit in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death.
(Prov 15:24)	The path of life is upward for the wise person, to keep him from going downward to Sheol.
(Ps 86:13)	For you will extend your great loyal love to me, and will deliver my life from the depths of Sheol.
(Rom 5:9)	Much more then, because we have now been declared righteous by his blood, we will be saved through him from God’s wrath.
(John 8:51)	I tell you the solemn truth, if anyone obeys my teaching, he will never see death.”
(1Thess 1:10)	and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus our deliverer from the coming wrath.
(John 3:16)	For this is the way God loved the world: He gave his one and only Son, so that everyone who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life.
(1Thess 5:9)	For God did not destine us for wrath but for gaining salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ.
(Rev 20:6)	Blessed and holy is the one who takes part in the first resurrection. The second death has no power over them, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and they will reign with him for a thousand years.
＊	2. HAPPINESS IMMEDIATELY AFTER DEATH
(Isa 57:2)	Those who live uprightly enter a place of peace; they rest on their beds.
(2Cor 5:8)	Thus we are full of courage and would prefer to be away from the body and at home with the Lord.
(Luke 16:25)	But Abraham said, ‘Child, remember that in your lifetime you received your good things and Lazarus likewise bad things, but now he is comforted here and you are in anguish.
(Ps 73:24)	You guide me by your wise advice, and then you will lead me to a position of honor.
(Ps 49:15)	But God will rescue my life from the power of Sheol; certainly he will pull me to safety. (Selah)
(Luke 23:43)	And Jesus said to him, “I tell you the truth, today you will be with me in paradise.”
(Phil 1:21)	For to me, living is Christ and dying is gain.
(Phil 1:23)	I feel torn between the two, because I have a desire to depart and be with Christ, which is better by far,
(Heb 12:22)	But you have come to Mount Zion, the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to myriads of angels, to the assembly
(Heb 12:23)	and congregation of the firstborn, who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous, who have been made perfect,
(Job 3:17)	There the wicked cease from turmoil, and there the weary are at rest.
(Job 3:18)	There the prisoners relax together; they do not hear the voice of the oppressor.
(Rev 14:13)	Then I heard a voice from heaven say, “Write this: ‘Blessed are the dead, those who die in the Lord from this moment on!’” “Yes,” says the Spirit, “so they can rest from their hard work, because their deeds will follow them.”
＊	3. A GLORIOUS RESURRECTION
(Dan 12:2)	Many of those who sleep in the dusty ground will awake – some to everlasting life, and others to shame and everlasting abhorrence.
(Ps 16:9)	So my heart rejoices and I am happy; My life is safe.
(Ps 16:10)	You will not abandon me to Sheol; you will not allow your faithful follower to see the Pit.
(Isa 26:19)	Your dead will come back to life; your corpses will rise up. Wake up and shout joyfully, you who live in the ground! For you will grow like plants drenched with the morning dew, and the earth will bring forth its dead spirits.
(John 5:28)	“Do not be amazed at this, because a time is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice
(John 5:29)	and will come out – the ones who have done what is good to the resurrection resulting in life, and the ones who have done what is evil to the resurrection resulting in condemnation.
(Luke 20:35)	But those who are regarded as worthy to share in that age and in the resurrection from the dead neither marry nor are given in marriage.
(Luke 20:36)	In fact, they can no longer die, because they are equal to angels and are sons of God, since they are sons of the resurrection.
(Job 19:26)	And after my skin has been destroyed, yet in my flesh I will see God,
(Job 19:27)	whom I will see for myself, and whom my own eyes will behold, and not another. My heart grows faint within me.
(John 6:39)	Now this is the will of the one who sent me – that I should not lose one person of every one he has given me, but raise them all up at the last day.
(John 6:40)	For this is the will of my Father – for everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him to have eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day.”
(John 6:54)	The one who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day.
(2Cor 5:1)	For we know that if our earthly house, the tent we live in, is dismantled, we have a building from God, a house not built by human hands, that is eternal in the heavens.
(2Cor 5:4)	For we groan while we are in this tent, since we are weighed down, because we do not want to be unclothed, but clothed, so that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life.
(Rom 8:11)	Moreover if the Spirit of the one who raised Jesus from the dead lives in you, the one who raised Christ from the dead will also make your mortal bodies alive through his Spirit who lives in you.
(1Cor 15:21)	For since death came through a man, the resurrection of the dead also came through a man.
(1Cor 15:42)	It is the same with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable, what is raised is imperishable.
(1Cor 15:44)	it is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body.
(1Cor 15:49)	And just as we have borne the image of the man of dust, let us also bear the image of the man of heaven.
(1Cor 15:51)	Listen, I will tell you a mystery: We will not all sleep, but we will all be changed –
(1Cor 15:54)	Now when this perishable puts on the imperishable, and this mortal puts on immortality, then the saying that is written will happen, “Death has been swallowed up in victory.”
(John 11:25)	Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. The one who believes in me will live even if he dies,
(2Cor 4:14)	We do so because we know that the one who raised up Jesus will also raise us up with Jesus and will bring us with you into his presence.
(1Cor 6:2)	Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is to be judged by you, are you not competent to settle trivial suits?
(1Cor 6:3)	Do you not know that we will judge angels? Why not ordinary matters!
(Phil 3:21)	who will transform these humble bodies of ours into the likeness of his glorious body by means of that power by which he is able to subject all things to himself.
(1Thess 4:14)	For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, so also we believe that God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep as Christians.
(1Thess 4:17)	Then we who are alive, who are left, will be suddenly caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so we will always be with the Lord.
(2Tim 1:10)	but now made visible through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus. He has broken the power of death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel!
＊	4. EVERLASTING HAPPINESS IN HEAVEN
(Rom 2:7)	eternal life to those who by perseverance in good works seek glory and honor and immortality,
(Rom 5:10)	For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of his Son, how much more, since we have been reconciled, will we be saved by his life?
(Rom 5:17)	For if, by the transgression of the one man, death reigned through the one, how much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness reign in life through the one, Jesus Christ!
(2Thess 1:5)	This is evidence of God’s righteous judgment, to make you worthy of the kingdom of God, for which in fact you are suffering.
(2Thess 1:7)	and to you who are being afflicted to give rest together with us when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels.
(2Thess 1:10)	when he comes to be glorified among his saints and admired on that day among all who have believed – and you did in fact believe our testimony.
(2Thess 1:12)	that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you, and you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ.
(Heb 4:9)	Consequently a Sabbath rest remains for the people of God.
(Ps 49:14)	They will travel to Sheol like sheep, with death as their shepherd. The godly will rule over them when the day of vindication dawns; Sheol will consume their bodies and they will no longer live in impressive houses.
(2Pet 3:13)	But, according to his promise, we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth, in which righteousness truly resides.
(Rev 3:4)	But you have a few individuals in Sardis who have not stained their clothes, and they will walk with me dressed in white, because they are worthy.
(John 14:2)	There are many dwelling places in my Father’s house. Otherwise, I would have told you, because I am going away to make ready a place for you.
(John 14:3)	And if I go and make ready a place for you, I will come again and take you to be with me, so that where I am you may be too.
(Heb 11:9)	By faith he lived as a foreigner in the promised land as though it were a foreign country, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, who were fellow heirs of the same promise.
(Heb 11:10)	For he was looking forward to the city with firm foundations, whose architect and builder is God.
(Heb 11:16)	But as it is, they aspire to a better land, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared a city for them.
(Rev 22:5)	Night will be no more, and they will not need the light of a lamp or the light of the sun, because the Lord God will shine on them, and they will reign forever and ever.
(Isa 60:20)	Your sun will no longer set; your moon will not disappear; the Lord will be your permanent source of light; your time of sorrow will be over.
(1Pet 1:9)	because you are attaining the goal of your faith – the salvation of your souls.
(1Pet 1:13)	Therefore, get your minds ready for action by being fully sober, and set your hope completely on the grace that will be brought to you when Jesus Christ is revealed.
(Heb 9:15)	And so he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the eternal inheritance he has promised, since he died to set them free from the violations committed under the first covenant.
(Rev 7:15)	For this reason they are before the throne of God, and they serve him day and night in his temple, and the one seated on the throne will shelter them.
(Rev 7:17)	because the Lamb in the middle of the throne will shepherd them and lead them to springs of living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.”
(1Cor 2:9)	But just as it is written, “Things that no eye has seen, or ear heard, or mind imagined, are the things God has prepared for those who love him.”
(1John 3:2)	Dear friends, we are God’s children now, and what we will be has not yet been revealed. We know that whenever it is revealed we will be like him, because we will see him just as he is.
(Rev 11:18)	The nations were enraged, but your wrath has come, and the time has come for the dead to be judged, and the time has come to give to your servants, the prophets, their reward, as well as to the saints and to those who revere your name, both small and great, and the time has come to destroy those who destroy the earth.”
(John 17:22)	The glory you gave to me I have given to them, that they may be one just as we are one –
(John 17:24)	“Father, I want those you have given me to be with me where I am, so that they can see my glory that you gave me because you loved me before the creation of the world .
(Rev 21:22)	Now I saw no temple in the city, because the Lord God – the All-Powerful – and the Lamb are its temple.
(Rev 21:23)	The city does not need the sun or the moon to shine on it, because the glory of God lights it up, and its lamp is the Lamb.
(Rev 2:10)	Do not be afraid of the things you are about to suffer. The devil is about to have some of you thrown into prison so you may be tested, and you will experience suffering for ten days. Remain faithful even to the point of death, and I will give you the crown that is life itself.
＊	FREEDOM FROM ALL SORROW IN HEAVEN
(Rev 22:3)	And there will no longer be any curse, and the throne of God and the Lamb will be in the city. His servants will worship him,
(Isa 60:20)	Your sun will no longer set; your moon will not disappear; the Lord will be your permanent source of light; your time of sorrow will be over.
(Matt 6:20)	But accumulate for yourselves treasures in heaven, where moth and devouring insect do not destroy, and thieves do not break in and steal.
(Rev 21:4)	He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death will not exist any more – or mourning, or crying, or pain, for the former things have ceased to exist.”
＊	JOY IN HEAVEN
(Matt 25:21)	His master answered, ‘Well done, good and faithful slave! You have been faithful in a few things. I will put you in charge of many things. Enter into the joy of your master.’
(Jude 1:24)	Now to the one who is able to keep you from falling, and to cause you to stand, rejoicing, without blemish before his glorious presence,
(Ps 16:11)	You lead me in the path of life; I experience absolute joy in your presence; you always give me sheer delight.
＊	GLORY IN HEAVEN
(Matt 13:43)	Then the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their Father. The one who has ears had better listen!
(1Pet 4:13)	But rejoice in the degree that you have shared in the sufferings of Christ, so that when his glory is revealed you may also rejoice and be glad.
(Col 3:4)	When Christ (who is your life) appears, then you too will be revealed in glory with him.
(2Tim 2:10)	So I endure all things for the sake of those chosen by God, that they too may obtain salvation in Christ Jesus and its eternal glory.
(Rom 8:17)	And if children, then heirs (namely, heirs of God and also fellow heirs with Christ) – if indeed we suffer with him so we may also be glorified with him.
(Rom 8:18)	For I consider that our present sufferings cannot even be compared to the coming glory that will be revealed to us.
(2Cor 4:17)	For our momentary, light suffering is producing for us an eternal weight of glory far beyond all comparison
(2Cor 4:18)	because we are not looking at what can be seen but at what cannot be seen. For what can be seen is temporary, but what cannot be seen is eternal.
(Dan 12:3)	But the wise will shine like the brightness of the heavenly expanse. And those bringing many to righteousness will be like the stars forever and ever.
＊	THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN
(Luke 12:32)	“Do not be afraid, little flock, for your Father is well pleased to give you the kingdom.
(2Tim 4:18)	The Lord will deliver me from every evil deed and will bring me safely into his heavenly kingdom. To him be glory for ever and ever! Amen.
(Matt 25:34)	Then the king will say to those on his right, ‘Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.
(2Pet 1:11)	For thus an entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, will be richly provided for you.
(Luke 22:29)	Thus I grant to you a kingdom, just as my Father granted to me,
(Luke 22:30)	that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and you will sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
＊	THE HEAVENLY INHERITANCE
(Eph 1:18)	– since the eyes of your heart have been enlightened – so that you can know what is the hope of his calling, what is the wealth of his glorious inheritance in the saints,
(1Pet 1:3)	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! By his great mercy he gave us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
(1Pet 1:4)	that is, into an inheritance imperishable, undefiled, and unfading. It is reserved in heaven for you,
＊	ENJOYMENT OF GOD
(1Thess 4:17)	Then we who are alive, who are left, will be suddenly caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so we will always be with the Lord.
(Ps 36:9)	For with you is the fountain of life; in your light we see light.
(Ps 17:15)	As for me, because I am innocent I will see your face; when I awake you will reveal yourself to me.
(Rev 22:3)	And there will no longer be any curse, and the throne of God and the Lamb will be in the city. His servants will worship him,
(Rev 22:4)	and they will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads.
＊	ETERNAL LIFE
(Matt 25:46)	And these will depart into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.”
(1John 2:25)	Now this is the promise that he himself made to us: eternal life.
(John 6:47)	I tell you the solemn truth, the one who believes has eternal life.
(John 6:51)	I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats from this bread he will live forever. The bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh.”
(John 6:54)	The one who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day.
(Rom 6:23)	For the payoff of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.
(Gal 6:8)	because the person who sows to his own flesh will reap corruption from the flesh, but the one who sows to the Spirit will reap eternal life from the Spirit.
(Luke 20:36)	In fact, they can no longer die, because they are equal to angels and are sons of God, since they are sons of the resurrection.
(Titus 1:2)	in hope of eternal life, which God, who does not lie, promised before time began.
(John 10:27)	My sheep listen to my voice, and I know them, and they follow me.
(John 10:28)	I give them eternal life, and they will never perish; no one will snatch them from my hand.
(John 11:25)	Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. The one who believes in me will live even if he dies,
(John 11:26)	and the one who lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this?”
(Rom 2:7)	eternal life to those who by perseverance in good works seek glory and honor and immortality,
(1John 5:11)	And this is the testimony: God has given us eternal life, and this life is in his Son.
(1John 5:13)	I have written these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God so that you may know that you have eternal life.
(John 3:16)	For this is the way God loved the world: He gave his one and only Son, so that everyone who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life.
＊	PART TWO
＊	PROMISES FOR THE EXERCISE OF DUTIES AND GLORIES
＊	CHAPTER 1
＊	IN THE FULFILLMENT OF DUTY TOWARD GOD
＊	1. TO FAITH IN CHRIST
(Isa 28:16)	Therefore, this is what the Sovereign Lord, says: “Look, I am laying a stone in Zion, an approved stone, set in place as a precious cornerstone for the foundation. The one who maintains his faith will not panic.
(1Pet 2:6)	For it says in scripture, “Look, I lay in Zion a stone, a chosen and precious cornerstone, and whoever believes in him will never be put to shame.”
(John 12:46)	I have come as a light into the world, so that everyone who believes in me should not remain in darkness.
(John 3:16)	For this is the way God loved the world: He gave his one and only Son, so that everyone who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life.
(John 3:18)	The one who believes in him is not condemned. The one who does not believe has been condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the one and only Son of God.
(John 3:36)	The one who believes in the Son has eternal life. The one who rejects the Son will not see life, but God’s wrath remains on him.
(John 6:47)	I tell you the solemn truth, the one who believes has eternal life.
(Eph 2:8)	For by grace you are saved through faith, and this is not from yourselves, it is the gift of God;
(Luke 7:50)	He said to the woman, “Your faith has saved you; go in peace.”
(Isa 45:22)	Turn to me so you can be delivered, all you who live in the earth’s remote regions! For I am God, and I have no peer.
(Mark 9:23)	Then Jesus said to him, “‘If you are able?’ All things are possible for the one who believes.”
(Rom 10:4)	For Christ is the end of the law, with the result that there is righteousness for everyone who believes.
(Acts 16:31)	They replied, “Believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved, you and your household.”
(Rom 9:33)	just as it is written, “Look, I am laying in Zion a stone that will cause people to stumble and a rock that will make them fall, yet the one who believes in him will not be put to shame.”
(Rom 4:5)	But to the one who does not work, but believes in the one who declares the ungodly righteous, his faith is credited as righteousness.
(Acts 10:43)	About him all the prophets testify, that everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins through his name.”
(Matt 11:28)	Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest.
(Heb 10:38)	But my righteous one will live by faith, and if he shrinks back, I take no pleasure in him.
(Heb 10:39)	But we are not among those who shrink back and thus perish, but are among those who have faith and preserve their souls.
(John 6:35)	Jesus said to them, “I am the bread of life. The one who comes to me will never go hungry, and the one who believes in me will never be thirsty.
(John 6:37)	Everyone whom the Father gives me will come to me, and the one who comes to me I will never send away.
(Gal 3:9)	So then those who believe are blessed along with Abraham the believer.
(Gal 3:7)	so then, understand that those who believe are the sons of Abraham.
(Gal 3:22)	But the scripture imprisoned everything under sin so that the promise could be given – because of the faithfulness of Jesus Christ – to those who believe.
(1Pet 2:4)	So as you come to him, a living stone rejected by men but chosen and precious in God’s sight,
(1Pet 2:5)	you yourselves, as living stones, are built up as a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood and to offer spiritual sacrifices that are acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.
(John 20:29)	Jesus said to him, “Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are the people who have not seen and yet have believed.”
(1Tim 4:10)	In fact this is why we work hard and struggle, because we have set our hope on the living God, who is the Savior of all people, especially of believers.
(Heb 6:12)	so that you may not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and perseverance inherit the promises.
(John 1:12)	But to all who have received him – those who believe in his name – he has given the right to become God’s children
＊	CONFESSING CHRIST
(1John 4:15)	If anyone confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God resides in him and he in God.
(Matt 10:32)	“Whoever, then, acknowledges me before people, I will acknowledge before my Father in heaven.
(Rom 10:9)	because if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.
(Rom 10:10)	For with the heart one believes and thus has righteousness and with the mouth one confesses and thus has salvation.
＊	2. TO REPENTANCE
(Jer 36:3)	Perhaps when the people of Judah hear about all the disaster I intend to bring on them, they will all stop doing the evil things they have been doing. If they do, I will forgive their sins and the wicked things they have done.”
(Zech 1:3)	Therefore say to the people: The Lord of Heaven’s Armies says, “Turn to me,” says the Lord of Heaven’s Armies, “and I will turn to you,” says the Lord of Heaven’s Armies.
(Mal 3:7)	From the days of your ancestors you have ignored my commandments and have not kept them! Return to me, and I will return to you,” says the Lord of Heaven’s Armies. “But you say, ‘How should we return?’
(2Chr 30:9)	For if you return to the Lord, your brothers and sons will be shown mercy by their captors and return to this land. The Lord your God is merciful and compassionate; he will not reject you if you return to him.”
(Jer 4:14)	“Oh people of Jerusalem, purify your hearts from evil so that you may yet be delivered. How long will you continue to harbor up wicked schemes within you?
(2Chr 7:14)	if my people, who belong to me, humble themselves, pray, seek to please me, and repudiate their sinful practices, then I will respond from heaven, forgive their sin, and heal their land.
(Jer 26:3)	Maybe they will pay attention and each of them will stop living the evil way they do. If they do that, then I will forgo destroying them as I had intended to do because of the wicked things they have been doing.
(Jer 26:13)	But correct the way you have been living and do what is right. Obey the Lord your God. If you do, the Lord will forgo destroying you as he threatened he would.
(Jer 18:8)	But if that nation I threatened stops doing wrong, I will cancel the destruction I intended to do to it.
(Isa 55:7)	The wicked need to abandon their lifestyle and sinful people their plans. They should return to the Lord, and he will show mercy to them, and to their God, for he will freely forgive them.
(Ezek 18:21)	“But if the wicked person turns from all the sin he has committed and observes all my statutes and does what is just and right, he will surely live; he will not die.
(Ezek 18:23)	Do I actually delight in the death of the wicked, declares the Sovereign Lord? Do I not prefer that he turn from his wicked conduct and live?
(Ezek 18:30)	“Therefore I will judge each person according to his conduct, O house of Israel, declares the Sovereign Lord. Repent and turn from all your wickedness; then it will not be an obstacle leading to iniquity.
(Ezek 18:32)	For I take no delight in the death of anyone, declares the Sovereign Lord. Repent and live!
(Ps 37:27)	Turn away from evil! Do what is right! Then you will enjoy lasting security.
(Prov 1:23)	You should respond to my rebuke. Then I would pour out my thoughts to you; I would make my words known to you.
(Joel 2:12)	“Yet even now,” the Lord says, “return to me with all your heart – with fasting, weeping, and mourning.
(Joel 2:14)	Who knows? Perhaps he will be compassionate and grant a reprieve, and leave blessing in his wake – a meal offering and a drink offering for you to offer to the Lord your God!
(Ezek 33:14)	Suppose I say to the wicked, ‘You must certainly die,’ but he turns from his sin and does what is just and right.
(Ezek 33:16)	None of the sins he has committed will be counted against him. He has done what is just and right; he will certainly live.
(Ezek 33:19)	When the wicked turns from his sin and does what is just and right, he will live because of it.
(Job 22:23)	If you return to the Almighty, you will be built up; if you remove wicked behavior far from your tent,
(Eph 5:14)	For everything made visible is light, and for this reason it says: “Awake, O sleeper! Rise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you!”
(Acts 2:38)	Peter said to them, “Repent, and each one of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
(Acts 3:19)	Therefore repent and turn back so that your sins may be wiped out,
＊	TO THEM THAT MOURN FOR THE WICKEDNESS OF THE LAND
(Ezek 9:4)	The Lord said to him, “Go through the city of Jerusalem and put a mark on the foreheads of the people who moan and groan over all the abominations practiced in it.”
(Ezek 9:6)	Old men, young men, young women, little children, and women – wipe them out! But do not touch anyone who has the mark. Begin at my sanctuary!” So they began with the elders who were at the front of the temple.
＊	REPENTING IN AFFLICTION
(Hos 6:1)	“Come on! Let’s return to the Lord! He himself has torn us to pieces, but he will heal us! He has injured us, but he will bandage our wounds!
(Job 33:27)	That person sings to others, saying: ‘I have sinned and falsified what is right, but I was not punished according to what I deserved.
(Job 33:28)	He redeemed my life from going down to the place of corruption, and my life sees the light!’
(Deut 4:30)	In your distress when all these things happen to you in the latter days, if you return to the Lord your God and obey him
(Deut 4:31)	(for he is a merciful God), he will not let you down or destroy you, for he cannot forget the covenant with your ancestors that he confirmed by oath to them.
＊	CONFESSION OF SIN
(Prov 28:13)	The one who covers his transgressions will not prosper, but whoever confesses them and forsakes them will find mercy.
(Ps 32:5)	Then I confessed my sin; I no longer covered up my wrongdoing. I said, “I will confess my rebellious acts to the Lord.” And then you forgave my sins. (Selah)
(Ps 32:7)	You are my hiding place; you protect me from distress. You surround me with shouts of joy from those celebrating deliverance. (Selah)
(1John 1:9)	But if we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous, forgiving us our sins and cleansing us from all unrighteousness.
(Luke 15:21)	Then his son said to him, ‘Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you; I am no longer worthy to be called your son.’
(Luke 15:22)	But the father said to his slaves, ‘Hurry! Bring the best robe, and put it on him! Put a ring on his finger and sandals on his feet!
(Lev 26:40)	However, when they confess their iniquity and their ancestors’ iniquity which they committed by trespassing against me, by which they also walked in hostility against me
(Lev 26:42)	I will remember my covenant with Jacob and also my covenant with Isaac and also my covenant with Abraham, and I will remember the land.
(Jer 3:12)	“Go and shout this message to my people in the countries in the north. Tell them, ‘Come back to me, wayward Israel,’ says the Lord. ‘I will not continue to look on you with displeasure. For I am merciful,’ says the Lord. ‘I will not be angry with you forever.
(Jer 3:13)	However, you must confess that you have done wrong, and that you have rebelled against the Lord your God. You must confess that you have given yourself to foreign gods under every green tree, and have not obeyed my commands,’ says the Lord.
＊	3. OBEDIENCE
(Ps 106:3)	How blessed are those who promote justice, and do what is right all the time!
(Matt 5:19)	So anyone who breaks one of the least of these commands and teaches others to do so will be called least in the kingdom of heaven, but whoever obeys them and teaches others to do so will be called great in the kingdom of heaven.
(Deut 4:1)	Now, Israel, pay attention to the statutes and ordinances I am about to teach you, so that you might live and go on to enter and take possession of the land that the Lord, the God of your ancestors, is giving you.
(Deut 4:6)	So be sure to do them, because this will testify of your wise understanding to the people who will learn of all these statutes and say, “Indeed, this great nation is a very wise people.”
(Deut 29:9)	“Therefore, keep the terms of this covenant and obey them so that you may be successful in everything you do.
(Deut 11:27)	the blessing if you take to heart the commandments of the Lord your God that I am giving you today,
(Deut 5:29)	If only it would really be their desire to fear me and obey all my commandments in the future, so that it may go well with them and their descendants forever.
(Deut 7:12)	If you obey these ordinances and are careful to do them, the Lord your God will faithfully keep covenant with you as he promised your ancestors.
(Deut 6:3)	Pay attention, Israel, and be careful to do this so that it may go well with you and that you may increase greatly in number – as the Lord, God of your ancestors, said to you, you will have a land flowing with milk and honey.
(Deut 6:18)	Do whatever is proper and good before the Lord so that it may go well with you and that you may enter and occupy the good land that he promised your ancestors,
(Deut 6:19)	and that you may drive out all your enemies just as the Lord said.
(Lev 25:18)	You must obey my statutes and my regulations; you must be sure to keep them so that you may live securely in the land.
(Lev 25:19)	“‘The land will give its fruit and you may eat until you are satisfied, and you may live securely in the land.
(1Sam 12:14)	If you fear the Lord, serving him and obeying him and not rebelling against what he says, and if both you and the king who rules over you follow the Lord your God, all will be well.
(Deut 32:46)	he said to them, “Keep in mind all the words I am solemnly proclaiming to you today; you must command your children to observe carefully all the words of this law.
(Deut 32:47)	For this is no idle word for you – it is your life! By this word you will live a long time in the land you are about to cross the Jordan to possess.”
(Deut 13:17)	You must not take for yourself anything that has been placed under judgment. Then the Lord will relent from his intense anger, show you compassion, have mercy on you, and multiply you as he promised your ancestors.
(Deut 13:18)	Thus you must obey the Lord your God, keeping all his commandments that I am giving you today and doing what is right before him.
(2Chr 15:7)	But as for you, be strong and don’t get discouraged, for your work will be rewarded.”
(Ps 25:10)	The Lord always proves faithful and reliable to those who follow the demands of his covenant.
(Job 36:11)	If they obey and serve him, they live out their days in prosperity and their years in pleasantness.
(Exod 19:5)	And now, if you will diligently listen to me and keep my covenant, then you will be my special possession out of all the nations, for all the earth is mine,
(Ps 119:1)	How blessed are those whose actions are blameless, who obey the law of the Lord.
(Ps 119:2)	How blessed are those who observe his rules, and seek him with all their heart,
(Ps 119:6)	Then I would not be ashamed, if I were focused on all your commands.
(1Chr 22:12)	Only may the Lord give you insight and understanding when he places you in charge of Israel, so you may obey the law of the Lord your God.
(1Chr 22:13)	Then you will succeed, if you carefully obey the rules and regulations which the Lord ordered Moses to give to Israel. Be strong and brave! Don’t be afraid and don’t panic!
(Prov 19:16)	The one who obeys commandments guards his life; the one who despises his ways will die.
(Isa 48:18)	If only you had obeyed my commandments, prosperity would have flowed to you like a river, deliverance would have come to you like the waves of the sea.
(Rev 22:14)	Blessed are those who wash their robes so they can have access to the tree of life and can enter into the city by the gates.
(Jer 7:23)	I also explicitly commanded them: “Obey me. If you do, I will be your God and you will be my people. Live exactly the way I tell you and things will go well with you.”
(1Kgs 2:3)	Do the job the Lord your God has assigned you by following his instructions and obeying his rules, commandments, regulations, and laws as written in the law of Moses. Then you will succeed in all you do and seek to accomplish,
(Deut 30:15)	“Look ! I have set before you today life and prosperity on the one hand, and death and disaster on the other.
(Deut 30:16)	What I am commanding you today is to love the Lord your God, to walk in his ways, and to obey his commandments, his statutes, and his ordinances. Then you will live and become numerous and the Lord your God will bless you in the land which you are about to possess.
(1John 2:17)	And the world is passing away with all its desires, but the person who does the will of God remains forever.
(John 13:17)	If you understand these things, you will be blessed if you do them.
(Ps 50:23)	Whoever presents a thank-offering honors me. To whoever obeys my commands, I will reveal my power to deliver.”
(John 7:17)	If anyone wants to do God’s will, he will know about my teaching, whether it is from God or whether I speak from my own authority.
(Matt 12:50)	For whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother.”
(1John 3:22)	and whatever we ask we receive from him, because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing to him.
(Matt 7:21)	“Not everyone who says to me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ will enter into the kingdom of heaven – only the one who does the will of my Father in heaven.
(Jas 1:25)	But the one who peers into the perfect law of liberty and fixes his attention there, and does not become a forgetful listener but one who lives it out – he will be blessed in what he does.
(Prov 29:18)	When there is no prophetic vision the people cast off restraint, but the one who keeps the law, blessed is he!
(Rom 2:13)	For it is not those who hear the law who are righteous before God, but those who do the law will be declared righteous.
(Isa 1:19)	If you have a willing attitude and obey, then you will again eat the good crops of the land.
(Phil 4:9)	And what you learned and received and heard and saw in me, do these things. And the God of peace will be with you.
＊	OBEYING CHRIST
(John 15:10)	If you obey my commandments, you will remain in my love, just as I have obeyed my Father’s commandments and remain in his love.
(Heb 5:9)	And by being perfected in this way, he became the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him,
(Exod 23:22)	But if you diligently obey him and do all that I command, then I will be an enemy to your enemies, and I will be an adversary to your adversaries.
(Isa 50:10)	Who among you fears the Lord? Who obeys his servant? Whoever walks in deep darkness, without light, should trust in the name of the Lord and rely on his God.
(John 8:51)	I tell you the solemn truth, if anyone obeys my teaching, he will never see death.”
(John 5:24)	“I tell you the solemn truth, the one who hears my message and believes the one who sent me has eternal life and will not be condemned, but has crossed over from death to life.
(Matt 7:24)	“Everyone who hears these words of mine and does them is like a wise man who built his house on rock.
(Matt 7:25)	The rain fell, the flood came, and the winds beat against that house, but it did not collapse because its foundation had been laid on rock.
＊	4. TO SINCERITY AND UPRIGHTNESS
(Ps 18:25)	You prove to be loyal to one who is faithful; you prove to be trustworthy to one who is innocent.
(1Chr 29:17)	I know, my God, that you examine thoughts and are pleased with integrity. With pure motives I contribute all this; and now I look with joy as your people who have gathered here contribute to you.
(Ps 11:7)	Certainly the Lord is just; he rewards godly deeds; the upright will experience his favor.
(2Chr 16:9)	Certainly the Lord watches the whole earth carefully and is ready to strengthen those who are devoted to him. You have acted foolishly in this matter; from now on you will have war.”
(Prov 10:29)	The way of the Lord is like a stronghold for the upright, but it is destruction to evildoers.
(Prov 13:6)	Righteousness guards the one who lives with integrity, but wickedness overthrows the sinner.
(Ps 119:80)	May I be fully committed to your statutes, so that I might not be ashamed.
(Ps 125:4)	Do good, O Lord, to those who are good, to the morally upright!
(Ps 37:18)	The Lord watches over the innocent day by day and they possess a permanent inheritance.
(Ps 15:1)	A psalm of David. Lord, who may be a guest in your home? Who may live on your holy hill?
(Ps 15:2)	Whoever lives a blameless life, does what is right, and speaks honestly.
(Prov 11:3)	The integrity of the upright guides them, but the crookedness of the treacherous destroys them.
(Prov 11:6)	The righteousness of the upright will deliver them, but the treacherous will be ensnared by their own desires.
(Prov 11:20)	The Lord abhors those who are perverse in heart, but those who are blameless in their ways are his delight.
(Prov 2:7)	He stores up effective counsel for the upright, and is like a shield for those who live with integrity,
(Prov 2:21)	For the upright will reside in the land, and those with integrity will remain in it,
(Prov 15:8)	The Lord abhors the sacrifice of the wicked, but the prayer of the upright pleases him.
(Prov 12:22)	The Lord abhors a person who lies, but those who deal truthfully are his delight.
(Mic 2:7)	Does the family of Jacob say, ‘The Lord’s patience can’t be exhausted – he would never do such things’? To be sure, my commands bring a reward for those who obey them,
(1John 3:21)	Dear friends, if our conscience does not condemn us, we have confidence in the presence of God,
(Rom 14:22)	The faith you have, keep to yourself before God. Blessed is the one who does not judge himself by what he approves.
(Prov 21:18)	The wicked become a ransom for the righteous, and the treacherous are taken in the place of the upright.
(Job 8:6)	if you become pure and upright, even now he will rouse himself for you, and will restore your righteous home.
(Prov 28:10)	The one who leads the upright astray in an evil way will himself fall into his own pit, but the blameless will inherit what is good.
(Prov 28:18)	The one who walks blamelessly will be delivered, but whoever is perverse in his ways will fall at once.
(Prov 28:20)	A faithful person will have an abundance of blessings, but the one who hastens to gain riches will not go unpunished.
＊	5. TO THE LOVE OF GOD
(Neh 1:5)	Then I said, “Please, O Lord God of heaven, great and awesome God, who keeps his loving covenant with those who love him and obey his commandments,
(Rom 8:28)	And we know that all things work together for good for those who love God, who are called according to his purpose,
(Ps 91:14)	The Lord says, “Because he is devoted to me, I will deliver him; I will protect him because he is loyal to me.
(Ps 37:4)	Then you will take delight in the Lord, and he will answer your prayers.
(Exod 20:6)	and showing covenant faithfulness to a thousand generations of those who love me and keep my commandments.
(Deut 7:9)	So realize that the Lord your God is the true God, the faithful God who keeps covenant faithfully with those who love him and keep his commandments, to a thousand generations,
(Deut 11:13)	Now, if you pay close attention to my commandments that I am giving you today and love the Lord your God and serve him with all your mind and being,
(Deut 11:14)	then he promises, “I will send rain for your land in its season, the autumn and the spring rains, so that you may gather in your grain, new wine, and olive oil.
(Ps 145:20)	The Lord protects all those who love him, but he destroys all the wicked.
(1Cor 8:3)	But if someone loves God, he is known by God.
(Judg 5:31)	May all your enemies perish like this, O Lord! But may those who love you shine like the rising sun at its brightest!” And the land had rest for forty years.
(Jas 2:5)	Listen, my dear brothers and sisters! Did not God choose the poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom that he promised to those who love him?
(1Cor 2:9)	But just as it is written, “Things that no eye has seen, or ear heard, or mind imagined, are the things God has prepared for those who love him.”
(Dan 9:4)	I prayed to the Lord my God, confessing in this way: “O Lord, great and awesome God who is faithful to his covenant with those who love him and keep his commandments,
＊	TO THE LOVE OF CHRIST
(John 14:21)	The person who has my commandments and obeys them is the one who loves me. The one who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and will reveal myself to him.”
(2Tim 4:8)	Finally the crown of righteousness is reserved for me. The Lord, the righteous Judge, will award it to me in that day – and not to me only, but also to all who have set their affection on his appearing.
(Eph 6:24)	Grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ with an undying love.
(Jas 1:12)	Happy is the one who endures testing, because when he has proven to be genuine, he will receive the crown of life that God promised to those who love him.
(Prov 8:17)	I will love those who love me, and those who seek me diligently will find me.
(Prov 8:21)	that I may cause those who love me to inherit wealth, and that I may fill their treasuries.
＊	6. TO TRUSTING AND PATIENTLY WAITING ON GOD
(Ps 18:30)	The one true God acts in a faithful manner; the Lord’s promise is reliable; he is a shield to all who take shelter in him.
(Ps 2:12)	Give sincere homage! Otherwise he will be angry, and you will die because of your behavior, when his anger quickly ignites. How blessed are all who take shelter in him!
(Ps 125:1)	A song of ascents. Those who trust in the Lord are like Mount Zion, which cannot be moved and will endure forever.
(Ps 27:14)	Rely on the Lord! Be strong and confident! Rely on the Lord!
(Ps 31:19)	How great is your favor, which you store up for your loyal followers! In plain sight of everyone you bestow it on those who take shelter in you.
(Ps 31:24)	Be strong and confident, all you who wait on the Lord!
(Ps 26:1)	By David. Vindicate me, O Lord, for I have integrity, and I trust in the Lord without wavering.
(Ps 34:8)	Taste and see that the Lord is good! How blessed is the one who takes shelter in him!
(Ps 84:12)	O Lord of Heaven’s Armies, how blessed are those who trust in you!
(Ps 40:4)	How blessed is the one who trusts in the Lord and does not seek help from the proud or from liars!
(Ps 56:4)	In God – I boast in his promise – in God I trust, I am not afraid. What can mere men do to me?
(Isa 25:9)	At that time they will say, “Look, here is our God! We waited for him and he delivered us. Here is the Lord! We waited for him. Let’s rejoice and celebrate his deliverance!”
(Ps 112:7)	He does not fear bad news. He is confident; he trusts in the Lord.
(Ps 112:8)	His resolve is firm; he will not succumb to fear before he looks in triumph on his enemies.
(Ps 37:3)	Trust in the Lord and do what is right! Settle in the land and maintain your integrity!
(Ps 37:9)	Wicked men will be wiped out, but those who rely on the Lord are the ones who will possess the land.
(Ps 37:40)	The Lord helps them and rescues them; he rescues them from evil men and delivers them, for they seek his protection.
(Isa 30:18)	For this reason the Lord is ready to show you mercy; he sits on his throne, ready to have compassion on you. Indeed, the Lord is a just God; all who wait for him in faith will be blessed.
(Isa 49:23)	Kings will be your children’s guardians; their princesses will nurse your children. With their faces to the ground they will bow down to you and they will lick the dirt on your feet. Then you will recognize that I am the Lord; those who wait patiently for me are not put to shame.
(Prov 28:25)	The greedy person stirs up dissension, but the one who trusts in the Lord will prosper.
(Ps 146:5)	How blessed is the one whose helper is the God of Jacob, whose hope is in the Lord his God,
(Prov 16:3)	Commit your works to the Lord, and your plans will be established.
(Prov 16:20)	The one who deals wisely in a matter will find success, and blessed is the one who trusts in the Lord.
(Isa 26:3)	You keep completely safe the people who maintain their faith, for they trust in you.
(Isa 26:4)	Trust in the Lord from this time forward, even in Yah, the Lord, an enduring protector!
(Jer 17:7)	My blessing is on those people who trust in me, who put their confidence in me.
(Jer 17:8)	They will be like a tree planted near a stream whose roots spread out toward the water. It has nothing to fear when the heat comes. Its leaves are always green. It has no need to be concerned in a year of drought. It does not stop bearing fruit.
(Rom 8:24)	For in hope we were saved. Now hope that is seen is not hope, because who hopes for what he sees?
(Nah 1:7)	The Lord is good – indeed, he is a fortress in time of distress, and he protects those who seek refuge in him.
(Prov 29:25)	The fear of people becomes a snare, but whoever trusts in the Lord will be set on high.
(1Pet 5:7)	by casting all your cares on him because he cares for you.
(Mic 7:7)	But I will keep watching for the Lord; I will wait for the God who delivers me. My God will listen to me.
(Isa 57:13)	When you cry out for help, let your idols help you! The wind blows them all away, a breeze carries them away. But the one who looks to me for help will inherit the land and will have access to my holy mountain.”
(Ps 34:22)	The Lord rescues his servants; all who take shelter in him escape punishment.
(Lam 3:25)	The Lord is good to those who trust in him, to the one who seeks him.
(Lam 3:26)	It is good to wait patiently for deliverance from the Lord.
＊	7. TO THE FEAR OF GOD
(Ps 85:9)	Certainly his loyal followers will soon experience his deliverance; then his splendor will again appear in our land.
(Ps 115:13)	He will bless his loyal followers, both young and old.
(Prov 16:6)	Through loyal love and truth iniquity is appeased; through fearing the Lord one avoids evil.
(Eccl 8:12)	Even though a sinner might commit a hundred crimes and still live a long time, yet I know that it will go well with God-fearing people – for they stand in fear before him.
(Ps 128:1)	A song of ascents. How blessed is every one of the Lord’s loyal followers, each one who keeps his commands!
(Ps 31:19)	How great is your favor, which you store up for your loyal followers! In plain sight of everyone you bestow it on those who take shelter in you.
(Ps 25:14)	The Lord’s loyal followers receive his guidance, and he reveals his covenantal demands to them.
(Ps 103:11)	For as the skies are high above the earth, so his loyal love towers over his faithful followers.
(Prov 3:7)	Do not be wise in your own estimation; fear the Lord and turn away from evil.
(Prov 3:8)	This will bring healing to your body, and refreshment to your inner self.
(Prov 14:26)	In the fear of the Lord one has strong confidence, and it will be a refuge for his children.
(Prov 14:27)	The fear of the Lord is like a life-giving fountain, to turn people from deadly snares.
(Ps 147:11)	The Lord takes delight in his faithful followers, and in those who wait for his loyal love.
(Luke 1:50)	from generation to generation he is merciful to those who fear him.
(Acts 13:26)	Brothers, descendants of Abraham’s family, and those Gentiles among you who fear God, the message of this salvation has been sent to us.
(Acts 10:35)	but in every nation the person who fears him and does what is right is welcomed before him.
(Mal 4:2)	But for you who respect my name, the sun of vindication will rise with healing wings, and you will skip about like calves released from the stall.
(Prov 19:23)	Fearing the Lord leads to life, and one who does so will live satisfied; he will not be afflicted by calamity.
＊	HONORING GOD
(1Sam 2:30)	Therefore the Lord, the God of Israel, says, ‘I really did say that your house and your ancestor’s house would serve me forever.’ But now the Lord says, ‘May it never be! For I will honor those who honor me, but those who despise me will be cursed!
(Prov 3:9)	Honor the Lord from your wealth and from the first fruits of all your crops;
(Prov 3:10)	then your barns will be filled completely, and your vats will overflow with new wine.
＊	8. TO PRAYER
(Ps 145:18)	The Lord is near all who cry out to him, all who cry out to him sincerely.
(Ps 18:3)	I called to the Lord, who is worthy of praise, and I was delivered from my enemies.
(Job 33:26)	He entreats God, and God delights in him, he sees God’s face with rejoicing, and God restores to him his righteousness.
(Ps 10:17)	Lord, you have heard the request of the oppressed; you make them feel secure because you listen to their prayer.
(Exod 34:24)	For I will drive out the nations before you and enlarge your borders; no one will covet your land when you go up to appear before the Lord your God three times in the year.
(Deut 4:7)	In fact, what other great nation has a god so near to them like the Lord our God whenever we call on him?
(Ps 86:5)	Certainly O Lord, you are kind and forgiving, and show great faithfulness to all who cry out to you.
(Ps 86:7)	In my time of trouble I cry out to you, for you will answer me.
(Ps 73:28)	But as for me, God’s presence is all I need. I have made the Sovereign Lord my shelter, as I declare all the things you have done.
(Jas 4:8)	Draw near to God and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and make your hearts pure, you double-minded.
(Joel 2:32)	It will so happen that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be delivered. For on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there will be those who survive, just as the Lord has promised; the remnant will be those whom the Lord will call.
(Ps 6:9)	The Lord has heard my appeal for mercy; the Lord has accepted my prayer.
(Jer 33:3)	‘Call on me in prayer and I will answer you. I will show you great and mysterious things which you still do not know about.’
(Ezek 36:37)	“This is what the Sovereign Lord says: I will allow the house of Israel to ask me to do this for them: I will multiply their people like sheep.
(Heb 4:14)	Therefore since we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast to our confession.
(Heb 4:16)	Therefore let us confidently approach the throne of grace to receive mercy and find grace whenever we need help.
(Ps 55:17)	During the evening, morning, and noontime I will lament and moan, and he will hear me.
(Job 22:21)	“Reconcile yourself with God, and be at peace with him; in this way your prosperity will be good.
(Rom 10:12)	For there is no distinction between the Jew and the Greek, for the same Lord is Lord of all, who richly blesses all who call on him.
(Rom 10:13)	For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.
＊	SEEKING GOD
(1Chr 28:9)	“And you, Solomon my son, obey the God of your father and serve him with a submissive attitude and a willing spirit, for the Lord examines all minds and understands every motive of one’s thoughts. If you seek him, he will let you find him, but if you abandon him, he will reject you permanently.
(Jer 29:13)	When you seek me in prayer and worship, you will find me available to you. If you seek me with all your heart and soul,
(Deut 4:29)	But if you seek the Lord your God from there, you will find him, if, indeed, you seek him with all your heart and soul.
(Job 8:5)	But if you will look to God, and make your supplication to the Almighty,
(Job 8:6)	if you become pure and upright, even now he will rouse himself for you, and will restore your righteous home.
(Amos 5:4)	The Lord says this to the family of Israel: “Seek me so you can live!
(Ps 69:32)	The oppressed look on – let them rejoice! You who seek God, may you be encouraged!
(Ps 9:10)	Your loyal followers trust in you, for you, Lord, do not abandon those who seek your help.
(Isa 45:19)	I have not spoken in secret, in some hidden place. I did not tell Jacob’s descendants, ‘Seek me in vain!’ I am the Lord, the one who speaks honestly, who makes reliable announcements.
(Ezra 8:22)	I was embarrassed to request soldiers and horsemen from the king to protect us from the enemy along the way, because we had said to the king, “The good hand of our God is on everyone who is seeking him, but his great anger is against everyone who forsakes him.”
(Hos 10:12)	Sow righteousness for yourselves, reap unfailing love. Break up the unplowed ground for yourselves, for it is time to seek the Lord, until he comes and showers deliverance on you.
(Lam 3:25)	The Lord is good to those who trust in him, to the one who seeks him.
(Acts 17:27)	so that they would search for God and perhaps grope around for him and find him, though he is not far from each one of us.
(2Chr 15:2)	He met Asa and told him, “Listen to me, Asa and all Judah and Benjamin! The Lord is with you when you are loyal to him. If you seek him, he will respond to you, but if you reject him, he will reject you.
(Heb 11:6)	Now without faith it is impossible to please him, for the one who approaches God must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who seek him.
＊	SECRET PRAYER
(Matt 6:6)	But whenever you pray, go into your inner room, close the door, and pray to your Father in secret. And your Father, who sees in secret, will reward you.
＊	PRAISING GOD
(Ps 135:3)	Praise the Lord, for the Lord is good! Sing praises to his name, for it is pleasant!
(Ps 69:30)	I will sing praises to God’s name! I will magnify him as I give him thanks!
(Ps 69:31)	That will please the Lord more than an ox or a bull with horns and hooves.
(Ps 92:1)	A psalm; a song for the Sabbath day. It is fitting to thank the Lord, and to sing praises to your name, O Most High!
(Ps 92:2)	It is fitting to proclaim your loyal love in the morning, and your faithfulness during the night,
＊	DESIRES OF GRACE
(Ps 81:10)	I am the Lord, your God, the one who brought you out of the land of Egypt. Open your mouth wide and I will fill it!’
(Rev 21:6)	He also said to me, “It is done! I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the one who is thirsty I will give water free of charge from the spring of the water of life.
(Matt 5:6)	“Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they will be satisfied.
(Rev 22:17)	And the Spirit and the bride say, “Come!” And let the one who hears say: “Come!” And let the one who is thirsty come; let the one who wants it take the water of life free of charge.
(Isa 55:1)	“Hey, all who are thirsty, come to the water! You who have no money, come! Buy and eat! Come! Buy wine and milk without money and without cost!
(John 7:37)	On the last day of the feast, the greatest day, Jesus stood up and shouted out, “If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me, and
(John 7:38)	let the one who believes in me drink. Just as the scripture says, ‘From within him will flow rivers of living water.’”
＊	9. TO WISDOM AND KNOWLEDGE
＊	TO THE WISE
(Prov 8:35)	For the one who finds me has found life and received favor from the Lord.
(Prov 1:5)	(Let the wise also hear and gain instruction, and let the discerning acquire guidance!)
(Prov 1:6)	To discern the meaning of a proverb and a parable, the sayings of the wise and their riddles.
(Prov 13:15)	Keen insight wins favor, but the conduct of the treacherous ends in destruction.
(Prov 9:12)	If you are wise, you are wise to your own advantage, but if you have mocked, you alone must bear it.
(Prov 10:17)	The one who heeds instruction is on the way to life, but the one who rejects rebuke goes astray.
(Prov 4:6)	Do not forsake wisdom, and she will protect you; love her, and she will guard you.
(Prov 4:8)	Esteem her highly and she will exalt you; she will honor you if you embrace her.
(Prov 4:9)	She will place a fair garland on your head; she will bestow a beautiful crown on you.”
(Prov 3:13)	Blessed is the one who has found wisdom, and the one who obtains understanding.
(Prov 3:18)	She is like a tree of life to those who grasp onto her, and everyone who takes hold of her will be blessed.
(Prov 3:35)	The wise inherit honor, but he holds fools up to public contempt.
(Prov 11:29)	The one who troubles his family will inherit nothing, and the fool will be a servant to the wise person.
(Prov 21:20)	There is desirable treasure and olive oil in the dwelling of the wise, but a foolish person devours all he has.
(Prov 19:8)	The one who acquires understanding loves himself; the one who preserves understanding will prosper.
(Prov 16:20)	The one who deals wisely in a matter will find success, and blessed is the one who trusts in the Lord.
(Prov 16:22)	Insight is like a life-giving fountain to the one who possesses it, but folly leads to the discipline of fools.
(Eccl 7:12)	For wisdom provides protection, just as money provides protection. But the advantage of knowledge is this: Wisdom preserves the life of its owner.
(Prov 24:3)	By wisdom a house is built, and through understanding it is established;
(Prov 24:5)	A wise warrior is strong, and a man of knowledge makes his strength stronger;
(Prov 24:13)	Eat honey, my child, for it is good, and honey from the honeycomb is sweet to your taste.
(Prov 24:14)	Likewise, know that wisdom is sweet to your soul; if you have found it, you have a future, and your hope will not be cut off.
(Eccl 10:10)	If an iron axhead is blunt and a workman does not sharpen its edge, he must exert a great deal of effort; so wisdom has the advantage of giving success.
(Prov 28:26)	The one who trusts in his own heart is a fool, but the one who walks in wisdom will escape.
(Prov 12:8)	A person will be praised in accordance with his wisdom, but the one with a bewildered mind will be despised.
(Prov 15:24)	The path of life is upward for the wise person, to keep him from going downward to Sheol.
(Eccl 8:1)	Who is a wise person? Who knows the solution to a problem? A person’s wisdom brightens his appearance, and softens his harsh countenance.
(Dan 2:21)	He changes times and seasons, deposing some kings and establishing others. He gives wisdom to the wise; he imparts knowledge to those with understanding;
(Hos 14:9)	Who is wise? Let him discern these things! Who is discerning? Let him understand them! For the ways of the Lord are right; the godly walk in them, but in them the rebellious stumble.
(Dan 12:3)	But the wise will shine like the brightness of the heavenly expanse. And those bringing many to righteousness will be like the stars forever and ever.
(Dan 12:10)	Many will be purified, made clean, and refined, but the wicked will go on being wicked. None of the wicked will understand, though the wise will understand.
(Ps 107:43)	Whoever is wise, let him take note of these things! Let them consider the Lord’s acts of loyal love!
＊	LOVE AND STUDY OF WISDOM
(Hos 6:3)	So let us search for him! Let us seek to know the Lord! He will come to our rescue as certainly as the appearance of the dawn, as certainly as the winter rain comes, as certainly as the spring rain that waters the land.”
(Prov 8:17)	I will love those who love me, and those who seek me diligently will find me.
(Prov 4:13)	Hold on to instruction, do not let it go; protect it, because it is your life.
(Prov 19:20)	Listen to advice and receive discipline, that you may become wise by the end of your life.
(Prov 2:3)	indeed, if you call out for discernment – shout loudly for understanding –
(Prov 2:5)	then you will understand how to fear the Lord, and you will discover knowledge about God.
(2Chr 1:11)	God said to Solomon, “Because you desire this, and did not ask for riches, wealth, and honor, or for vengeance on your enemies, and because you did not ask for long life, but requested wisdom and discernment so you can make judicial decisions for my people over whom I have made you king,
(2Chr 1:12)	you are granted wisdom and discernment. Furthermore I am giving you riches, wealth, and honor surpassing that of any king before or after you.”
＊	KNOWLEDGE OF GOD AND CHRIST
(Ps 91:14)	The Lord says, “Because he is devoted to me, I will deliver him; I will protect him because he is loyal to me.
(John 17:3)	Now this is eternal life – that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you sent.
(2Pet 1:2)	May grace and peace be lavished on you as you grow in the rich knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord!
(2Pet 1:3)	I can pray this because his divine power has bestowed on us everything necessary for life and godliness through the rich knowledge of the one who called us by his own glory and excellence.
＊	LEARNING OF CHRIST
(Matt 11:29)	Take my yoke on you and learn from me, because I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls.
＊	10. TO A DUE REGARD TO THE WORD OF GOD
＊	TO HEARING AND READING THE WORD
(Prov 8:34)	Blessed is the one who listens to me, watching at my doors day by day, waiting beside my doorway.
(Isa 2:3)	many peoples will come and say, “Come, let us go up to the Lord’s mountain, to the temple of the God of Jacob, so he can teach us his requirements, and we can follow his standards.” For Zion will be the center for moral instruction; the Lord’s message will issue from Jerusalem.
(1Cor 1:21)	For since in the wisdom of God the world by its wisdom did not know God, God was pleased to save those who believe by the foolishness of preaching.
(John 5:39)	You study the scriptures thoroughly because you think in them you possess eternal life, and it is these same scriptures that testify about me,
(Mark 4:24)	And he said to them, “Take care about what you hear. The measure you use will be the measure you receive, and more will be added to you.
(Mark 4:25)	For whoever has will be given more, but whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him.”
(Isa 55:2)	Why pay money for something that will not nourish you? Why spend your hard-earned money on something that will not satisfy? Listen carefully to me and eat what is nourishing! Enjoy fine food!
(Isa 55:3)	Pay attention and come to me! Listen, so you can live! Then I will make an unconditional covenantal promise to you, just like the reliable covenantal promises I made to David.
(Isa 55:10)	The rain and snow fall from the sky and do not return, but instead water the earth and make it produce and yield crops, and provide seed for the planter and food for those who must eat.
(Isa 55:12)	Indeed you will go out with joy; you will be led along in peace; the mountains and hills will give a joyful shout before you, and all the trees in the field will clap their hands.
(Rom 10:17)	Consequently faith comes from what is heard, and what is heard comes through the preached word of Christ.
(Rev 1:3)	Blessed is the one who reads the words of this prophecy aloud, and blessed are those who hear and obey the things written in it, because the time is near!
(Rom 1:16)	For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is God’s power for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek.
(Jas 1:21)	So put away all filth and evil excess and humbly welcome the message implanted within you, which is able to save your souls.
(2Pet 1:19)	Moreover, we possess the prophetic word as an altogether reliable thing. You do well if you pay attention to this as you would to a light shining in a murky place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts.
(Ps 19:7)	The law of the Lord is perfect and preserves one’s life. The rules set down by the Lord are reliable and impart wisdom to the inexperienced.
(Ps 19:8)	The Lord’s precepts are fair and make one joyful. The Lord’s commands are pure and give insight for life.
(Ps 19:11)	Yes, your servant finds moral guidance there; those who obey them receive a rich reward.
(Prov 6:23)	For the commandments are like a lamp, instruction is like a light, and rebukes of discipline are like the road leading to life,
(2Tim 3:15)	and how from infancy you have known the holy writings, which are able to give you wisdom for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus.
(Ps 119:105)	Your word is a lamp to walk by, and a light to illumine my path.
(Heb 4:12)	For the word of God is living and active and sharper than any double-edged sword, piercing even to the point of dividing soul from spirit, and joints from marrow; it is able to judge the desires and thoughts of the heart.
＊	LOVING THE WORD
(Ps 119:165)	Those who love your law are completely secure; nothing causes them to stumble.
(1Pet 2:2)	And yearn like newborn infants for pure, spiritual milk, so that by it you may grow up to salvation,
(Ps 112:1)	Praise the Lord! How blessed is the one who obeys the Lord, who takes great delight in keeping his commands.
＊	TREMBLING AT THE WORD
(Prov 13:13)	The one who despises instruction will pay the penalty, but whoever esteems direction will be rewarded.
(Isa 66:2)	My hand made them; that is how they came to be,” says the Lord. I show special favor to the humble and contrite, who respect what I have to say.
＊	11. MEDITATION
(Prov 14:22)	Do not those who devise evil go astray? But those who plan good exhibit faithful covenant love.
(Ps 37:31)	The law of their God controls their thinking; their feet do not slip.
(Josh 1:8)	This law scroll must not leave your lips! You must memorize it day and night so you can carefully obey all that is written in it. Then you will prosper and be successful.
(Deut 11:18)	Fix these words of mine into your mind and being, and tie them as a reminder on your hands and let them be symbols on your forehead.
(Deut 11:21)	so that your days and those of your descendants may be extended in the land which the Lord promised to give to your ancestors, like the days of heaven itself.
(Ps 119:9)	How can a young person maintain a pure life? By guarding it according to your instructions!
(Isa 64:5)	You assist those who delight in doing what is right, who observe your commandments. Look, you were angry because we violated them continually. How then can we be saved?
(Prov 4:26)	Make the path for your feet level, so that all your ways may be established.
(Ps 63:5)	As if with choice meat you satisfy my soul. My mouth joyfully praises you,
(Ps 63:6)	whenever I remember you on my bed, and think about you during the nighttime hours.
(Ps 103:17)	But the Lord continually shows loyal love to his faithful followers, and is faithful to their descendants,
(Ps 103:18)	to those who keep his covenant, who are careful to obey his commands.
(Ps 1:2)	Instead he finds pleasure in obeying the Lord’s commands; he meditates on his commands day and night.
(Ps 1:3)	He is like a tree planted by flowing streams; it yields its fruit at the proper time, and its leaves never fall off. He succeeds in everything he attempts.
＊	12. TO FASTING
(Joel 2:15)	Blow the trumpet in Zion. Announce a holy fast; proclaim a sacred assembly!
(Joel 2:18)	Then the Lord became zealous for his land; he had compassion on his people.
＊	FASTING IN SECRET
(Matt 6:17)	When you fast, anoint your head and wash your face,
(Matt 6:18)	so that it will not be obvious to others when you are fasting, but only to your Father who is in secret. And your Father, who sees in secret, will reward you.
＊	13. TO BAPTISM
(Mark 16:16)	The one who believes and is baptized will be saved, but the one who does not believe will be condemned.
(Acts 2:38)	Peter said to them, “Repent, and each one of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
(Gal 3:27)	For all of you who were baptized into Christ have clothed yourselves with Christ.
(Acts 22:16)	And now what are you waiting for? Get up, be baptized, and have your sins washed away, calling on his name.’
(1Cor 12:13)	For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body. Whether Jews or Greeks or slaves or free, we were all made to drink of the one Spirit.
(Col 2:12)	Having been buried with him in baptism, you also have been raised with him through your faith in the power of God who raised him from the dead.
(1Pet 3:20)	after they were disobedient long ago when God patiently waited in the days of Noah as an ark was being constructed. In the ark a few, that is eight souls, were delivered through water.
(1Pet 3:21)	And this prefigured baptism, which now saves you – not the washing off of physical dirt but the pledge of a good conscience to God – through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
(Rom 6:3)	Or do you not know that as many as were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death?
(Rom 6:4)	Therefore we have been buried with him through baptism into death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we too may live a new life.
＊	14. TO THE LORD'S SUPPER
(1Cor 12:13)	For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body. Whether Jews or Greeks or slaves or free, we were all made to drink of the one Spirit.
(1Cor 10:16)	Is not the cup of blessing that we bless a sharing in the blood of Christ? Is not the bread that we break a sharing in the body of Christ?
(Matt 26:26)	While they were eating, Jesus took bread, and after giving thanks he broke it, gave it to his disciples, and said, “Take, eat, this is my body.”
(Matt 26:28)	for this is my blood, the blood of the covenant, that is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.
(John 6:54)	The one who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day.
(John 6:57)	Just as the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, so the one who consumes me will live because of me.
(John 6:63)	The Spirit is the one who gives life; human nature is of no help! The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and are life.
(Song 5:1)	I have entered my garden, O my sister, my bride; I have gathered my myrrh with my balsam spice. I have eaten my honeycomb and my honey; I have drunk my wine and my milk! Eat, friends, and drink! Drink freely, O lovers!
(Song 2:3)	Like an apple tree among the trees of the forest, so is my beloved among the young men. I delight to sit in his shade, and his fruit is sweet to my taste.
(Song 2:4)	He brought me into the banquet hall, and he looked at me lovingly.
(Isa 25:6)	The Lord of Heaven’s Armies will hold a banquet for all the nations on this mountain. At this banquet there will be plenty of meat and aged wine – tender meat and choicest wine.
＊	15. TO GOOD DISCOURSE
(Prov 15:4)	Speech that heals is like a life-giving tree, but a perverse speech breaks the spirit.
(Prov 15:23)	A person has joy in giving an appropriate answer, and a word at the right time – how good it is!
(Mal 3:16)	Then those who respected the Lord spoke to one another, and the Lord took notice. A scroll was prepared before him in which were recorded the names of those who respected the Lord and honored his name.
(Mal 3:17)	“They will belong to me,” says the Lord of Heaven’s Armies, “in the day when I prepare my own special property. I will spare them as a man spares his son who serves him.
(Prov 13:2)	From the fruit of his speech a person eats good things, but the treacherous desire the fruit of violence.
(Prov 16:24)	Pleasant words are like a honeycomb, sweet to the soul and healing to the bones.
(Prov 18:20)	From the fruit of a person’s mouth his stomach will be satisfied, with the product of his lips he will be satisfied.
(Prov 18:21)	Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and those who love its use will eat its fruit.
(Prov 12:6)	The words of the wicked lie in wait to shed innocent blood, but the words of the upright will deliver them.
(Prov 12:14)	A person will be satisfied with good from the fruit of his words, and the work of his hands will be rendered to him.
(Prov 12:18)	Speaking recklessly is like the thrusts of a sword, but the words of the wise bring healing.
＊	THE GOVERNMENT OF THE TONGUE
(Prov 14:3)	In the speech of a fool is a rod for his back, but the words of the wise protect them.
(Prov 21:23)	The one who guards his mouth and his tongue keeps his life from troubles.
(1Pet 3:10)	For the one who wants to love life and see good days must keep his tongue from evil and his lips from uttering deceit.
(Prov 13:3)	The one who guards his words guards his life; whoever is talkative will come to ruin.
(Matt 12:37)	For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned.”
＊	16. TO WATCHFULNESS
(1Cor 10:12)	So let the one who thinks he is standing be careful that he does not fall.
(Prov 28:14)	Blessed is the one who is always cautious, but whoever hardens his heart will fall into evil.
(Mark 13:35)	Stay alert, then, because you do not know when the owner of the house will return – whether during evening, at midnight, when the rooster crows, or at dawn –
(Mark 13:36)	or else he might find you asleep when he returns suddenly.
(Mark 13:37)	What I say to you I say to everyone: Stay alert!”
(Rev 16:15)	(Look ! I will come like a thief! Blessed is the one who stays alert and does not lose his clothes so that he will not have to walk around naked and his shameful condition be seen.)
(Luke 12:37)	Blessed are those slaves whom their master finds alert when he returns! I tell you the truth, he will dress himself to serve, have them take their place at the table, and will come and wait on them!
(Luke 12:38)	Even if he comes in the second or third watch of the night and finds them alert, blessed are those slaves!
＊	17. TO KEEPING GOOD COMPANY
(Prov 27:17)	As iron sharpens iron, so a person sharpens his friend.
(Prov 13:20)	The one who associates with the wise grows wise, but a companion of fools suffers harm.
＊	AVOIDING EVIL COMPANY
(Ps 1:1)	How blessed is the one who does not follow the advice of the wicked, or stand in the pathway with sinners, or sit in the assembly of scoffers!
(2Cor 6:17)	Therefore “come out from their midst, and be separate,” says the Lord, “and touch no unclean thing, and I will welcome you,
＊	18. TO PERFORMING OATHS
(Ps 15:1)	A psalm of David. Lord, who may be a guest in your home? Who may live on your holy hill?
(Ps 15:4)	He despises a reprobate, but honors the Lord’s loyal followers. He makes firm commitments and does not renege on his promise.
(Ps 24:4)	The one whose deeds are blameless and whose motives are pure, who does not lie, or make promises with no intention of keeping them.
(Ps 24:5)	Such godly people are rewarded by the Lord, and vindicated by the God who delivers them.
＊	19. TO THE KEEPING OF THE SABBATH
(Exod 20:11)	For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth and the sea and all that is in them, and he rested on the seventh day; therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and set it apart as holy.
(Isa 58:13)	You must observe the Sabbath rather than doing anything you please on my holy day. You must look forward to the Sabbath and treat the Lord’s holy day with respect. You must treat it with respect by refraining from your normal activities, and by refraining from your selfish pursuits and from making business deals.
(Isa 58:14)	Then you will find joy in your relationship to the Lord, and I will give you great prosperity, and cause crops to grow on the land I gave to your ancestor Jacob.” Know for certain that the Lord has spoken.
(Isa 56:2)	The people who do this will be blessed, the people who commit themselves to obedience, who observe the Sabbath and do not defile it, who refrain from doing anything that is wrong.
(Isa 56:6)	As for foreigners who become followers of the Lord and serve him, who love the name of the Lord and want to be his servants – all who observe the Sabbath and do not defile it, and who are faithful to my covenant –
(Isa 56:7)	I will bring them to my holy mountain; I will make them happy in the temple where people pray to me. Their burnt offerings and sacrifices will be accepted on my altar, for my temple will be known as a temple where all nations may pray.”
(Mark 2:27)	Then he said to them, “The Sabbath was made for people, not people for the Sabbath.
(Ps 118:24)	This is the day the Lord has brought about. We will be happy and rejoice in it.
(Acts 20:7)	On the first day of the week, when we met to break bread, Paul began to speak to the people, and because he intended to leave the next day, he extended his message until midnight.
(Ezek 20:20)	Treat my Sabbaths as holy and they will be a reminder of our relationship, and then you will know that I am the Lord your God.”
(John 20:19)	On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the disciples had gathered together and locked the doors of the place because they were afraid of the Jewish leaders. Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, “Peace be with you.”
(Rev 1:10)	I was in the Spirit on the Lord’s Day when I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet,
(Rev 1:11)	saying: “Write in a book what you see and send it to the seven churches – to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, and Laodicea.”
(Jer 17:24)	The Lord says, ‘You must make sure to obey me. You must not bring any loads through the gates of this city on the Sabbath day. You must set the Sabbath day apart to me. You must not do any work on that day.
(Jer 17:25)	If you do this, then the kings and princes who follow in David’s succession and ride in chariots or on horses will continue to enter through these gates, as well as their officials and the people of Judah and the citizens of Jerusalem. This city will always be filled with people.
＊	CHAPTER 2
＊	IN THE PERFORMANCE OF DUTY TOWARD MEN
＊	1. TO OBEDIENCE TO PARENTS
(Eph 6:1)	Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.
(Eph 6:3)	“that it will go well with you and that you will live a long time on the earth.”
(Prov 1:8)	Listen, my child, to the instruction from your father, and do not forsake the teaching from your mother.
(Prov 1:9)	For they will be like an elegant garland on your head, and like pendants around your neck.
(1Tim 5:4)	But if a widow has children or grandchildren, they should first learn to fulfill their duty toward their own household and so repay their parents what is owed them. For this is what pleases God.
(Col 3:20)	Children, obey your parents in everything, for this is pleasing in the Lord.
(Prov 6:20)	My child, guard the commands of your father and do not forsake the instruction of your mother.
(Prov 6:22)	When you walk about, they will guide you; when you lie down, they will watch over you; when you wake up, they will talk to you.
(Jer 35:18)	Then Jeremiah spoke to the Rechabite community, “The Lord of Heaven’s Armies, the God of Israel says, ‘You have obeyed the orders of your ancestor Jonadab. You have followed all his instructions. You have done exactly as he commanded you.’
(Jer 35:19)	So the Lord of Heaven’s Armies, the God of Israel says, ‘Jonadab son of Rechab will never lack a male descendant to serve me.’”
＊	2. TO GOOD EDUCATION
(Gen 18:19)	I have chosen him so that he may command his children and his household after him to keep the way of the Lord by doing what is right and just. Then the Lord will give to Abraham what he promised him.”
(Prov 22:6)	Train a child in the way that he should go, and when he is old he will not turn from it.
(Deut 11:19)	Teach them to your children and speak of them as you sit in your house, as you walk along the road, as you lie down, and as you get up.
(Deut 11:21)	so that your days and those of your descendants may be extended in the land which the Lord promised to give to your ancestors, like the days of heaven itself.
＊	CORRECTION OF CHILDREN
(Prov 22:15)	Folly is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline will drive it far from him.
(Prov 23:13)	Do not withhold discipline from a child; even if you strike him with the rod, he will not die.
(Prov 23:14)	If you strike him with the rod, you will deliver him from death.
(Prov 29:15)	A rod and reproof impart wisdom, but a child who is unrestrained brings shame to his mother.
(Prov 29:17)	Discipline your child, and he will give you rest; he will bring you happiness.
＊	3. TO A GOOD WIFE
(Prov 14:1)	Every wise woman has built her household, but a foolish woman tears it down with her own hands.
(Prov 11:16)	A generous woman gains honor, and ruthless men seize wealth.
(Prov 12:4)	A noble wife is the crown of her husband, but the wife who acts shamefully is like rottenness in his bones.
(Prov 31:10)	Who can find a wife of noble character? For her value is far more than rubies.
(Prov 31:25)	her clothing was strong and splendid; and she laughed at the time to come.
(Prov 31:28)	Her children have risen and called her blessed; her husband also has praised her:
(Prov 31:30)	Charm is deceitful and beauty is fleeting. A woman who fears the Lord– she makes herself praiseworthy.
(Prov 31:31)	Give her credit for what she has accomplished, and let her works praise her in the city gates.
＊	4. TO FAITHFUL SERVANTS
(Prov 27:18)	The one who tends a fig tree will eat its fruit, and whoever takes care of his master will be honored.
(Prov 17:2)	A servant who acts wisely will rule over an heir who behaves shamefully, and will share the inheritance along with the relatives.
(Prov 14:35)	The king shows favor to a wise servant, but his wrath falls on one who acts shamefully.
(Col 3:22)	Slaves, obey your earthly masters in every respect, not only when they are watching – like those who are strictly people-pleasers – but with a sincere heart, fearing the Lord.
(Col 3:24)	because you know that you will receive your inheritance from the Lord as the reward. Serve the Lord Christ.
(Eph 6:5)	Slaves, obey your human masters with fear and trembling, in the sincerity of your heart, as to Christ,
(Eph 6:8)	because you know that each person, whether slave or free, if he does something good, this will be rewarded by the Lord.
＊	5. TO GOOD KINGS AND MAGISTRATES
(Prov 16:12)	Doing wickedness is an abomination to kings, because a throne is established in righteousness.
(Prov 20:28)	Loyal love and truth preserve a king, and his throne is upheld by loyal love.
(Prov 29:14)	If a king judges the poor in truth, his throne will be established forever.
(Isa 28:5)	At that time the Lord of Heaven’s Armies will become a beautiful crown and a splendid diadem for the remnant of his people.
(Isa 28:6)	He will give discernment to the one who makes judicial decisions, and strength to those who defend the city from attackers.
(Deut 17:18)	When he sits on his royal throne he must make a copy of this law on a scroll given to him by the Levitical priests.
(Deut 17:20)	Then he will not exalt himself above his fellow citizens or turn from the commandments to the right or left, and he and his descendants will enjoy many years ruling over his kingdom in Israel.
＊	6. TO OBEDIENT SUBJECTS
(1Pet 2:13)	Be subject to every human institution for the Lord’s sake, whether to a king as supreme
(1Pet 2:15)	For God wants you to silence the ignorance of foolish people by doing good.
(Eccl 8:5)	Whoever obeys his command will not experience harm, and a wise person knows the proper time and procedure.
＊	7. TO FAITHFUL MINISTERS
(Isa 49:4)	But I thought, “I have worked in vain; I have expended my energy for absolutely nothing.” But the Lord will vindicate me; my God will reward me.
(Isa 32:20)	you will be blessed, you who plant seed by all the banks of the streams, you who let your ox and donkey graze.
(Jer 31:14)	I will provide the priests with abundant provisions. My people will be filled to the full with the good things I provide.”
(1Pet 5:1)	So as your fellow elder and a witness of Christ’s sufferings and as one who shares in the glory that will be revealed, I urge the elders among you:
(1Pet 5:4)	Then when the Chief Shepherd appears, you will receive the crown of glory that never fades away.
(Rev 2:1)	“To the angel of the church in Ephesus, write the following: “This is the solemn pronouncement of the one who has a firm grasp on the seven stars in his right hand – the one who walks among the seven golden lampstands:
(1Tim 4:16)	Be conscientious about how you live and what you teach. Persevere in this, because by doing so you will save both yourself and those who listen to you.
(Dan 12:3)	But the wise will shine like the brightness of the heavenly expanse. And those bringing many to righteousness will be like the stars forever and ever.
(Matt 28:20)	teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And remember, I am with you always, to the end of the age.”
(John 4:36)	The one who reaps receives pay and gathers fruit for eternal life, so that the one who sows and the one who reaps can rejoice together.
(Luke 12:42)	The Lord replied, “Who then is the faithful and wise manager, whom the master puts in charge of his household servants, to give them their allowance of food at the proper time?
(Luke 12:44)	I tell you the truth, the master will put him in charge of all his possessions.
(Ps 132:16)	I will protect her priests, and her godly people will shout exuberantly.
(Jer 20:11)	But the Lord is with me to help me like an awe-inspiring warrior. Therefore those who persecute me will fail and will not prevail over me. They will be thoroughly disgraced because they did not succeed. Their disgrace will never be forgotten.
(Ezek 3:8)	“I have made your face adamant to match their faces, and your forehead hard to match their foreheads.
(Ezek 3:9)	I have made your forehead harder than flint – like diamond! Do not fear them or be terrified of the looks they give you, for they are a rebellious house.”
(Jer 15:19)	Because of this, the Lord said, “You must repent of such words and thoughts! If you do, I will restore you to the privilege of serving me. If you say what is worthwhile instead of what is worthless, I will again allow you to be my spokesman. They must become as you have been. You must not become like them.
(Jer 15:21)	“I will deliver you from the power of the wicked. I will free you from the clutches of violent people.”
(Luke 21:15)	For I will give you the words along with the wisdom that none of your adversaries will be able to withstand or contradict.
(Deut 10:9)	Therefore Levi has no allotment or inheritance among his brothers; the Lord is his inheritance just as the Lord your God told him.
(Deut 33:11)	Bless, O Lord, his goods, and be pleased with his efforts; undercut the legs of any who attack him, and of those who hate him, so that they cannot stand.
(Matt 10:19)	Whenever they hand you over for trial, do not worry about how to speak or what to say, for what you should say will be given to you at that time.
(Matt 10:20)	For it is not you speaking, but the Spirit of your Father speaking through you.
(Jer 1:7)	The Lord said to me, “Do not say, ‘I am too young.’ But go to whomever I send you and say whatever I tell you.
(Jer 1:8)	Do not be afraid of those to whom I send you, for I will be with you to protect you,” says the Lord.
(Jer 1:19)	They will attack you but they will not be able to overcome you, for I will be with you to rescue you,” says the Lord.
＊	8. TO THEM THAT RECEIVE AND HEARKEN TO MINISTERS
(Luke 10:16)	“The one who listens to you listens to me, and the one who rejects you rejects me, and the one who rejects me rejects the one who sent me.”
(2Chr 20:20)	Early the next morning they marched out to the wilderness of Tekoa. When they were ready to march, Jehoshaphat stood up and said: “Listen to me, you people of Judah and residents of Jerusalem! Trust in the Lord your God and you will be safe! Trust in the message of his prophets and you will win.”
(John 13:20)	I tell you the solemn truth, whoever accepts the one I send accepts me, and whoever accepts me accepts the one who sent me.”
(Matt 10:40)	“Whoever receives you receives me, and whoever receives me receives the one who sent me.
(Matt 10:41)	Whoever receives a prophet in the name of a prophet will receive a prophet’s reward. Whoever receives a righteous person in the name of a righteous person will receive a righteous person’s reward.
＊	9. TO LOVE AND UNITY
(John 13:35)	Everyone will know by this that you are my disciples – if you have love for one another.”
(1John 2:10)	The one who loves his fellow Christian resides in the light, and there is no cause for stumbling in him.
(2Cor 13:11)	Finally, brothers and sisters, rejoice, set things right, be encouraged, agree with one another, live in peace, and the God of love and peace will be with you.
(Ps 133:1)	A song of ascents, by David. Look! How good and how pleasant it is when brothers truly live in unity!
(Ps 133:3)	It is like the dew of Hermon, which flows down upon the hills of Zion. Indeed, that is where the Lord has decreed a blessing will be available – eternal life.
＊	TO THE PEACEMAKERS
(Prov 12:20)	Deceit is in the heart of those who plot evil, but those who promote peace have joy.
(Matt 5:9)	“Blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called the children of God.
(1Pet 3:10)	For the one who wants to love life and see good days must keep his tongue from evil and his lips from uttering deceit.
(1Pet 3:11)	And he must turn away from evil and do good; he must seek peace and pursue it.
＊	LOVE TO GOD'S PEOPLE
(Ps 122:6)	Pray for the peace of Jerusalem! May those who love her prosper!
(Ps 15:1)	A psalm of David. Lord, who may be a guest in your home? Who may live on your holy hill?
(Ps 15:4)	He despises a reprobate, but honors the Lord’s loyal followers. He makes firm commitments and does not renege on his promise.
(1John 4:12)	No one has seen God at any time. If we love one another, God resides in us, and his love is perfected in us.
(Num 24:9)	They crouch and lie down like a lion, and as a lioness, who can stir him? Blessed is the one who blesses you, and cursed is the one who curses you!’”
(Heb 6:10)	For God is not unjust so as to forget your work and the love you have demonstrated for his name, in having served and continuing to serve the saints.
(1John 3:14)	We know that we have crossed over from death to life because we love our fellow Christians. The one who does not love remains in death.
(1John 3:18)	Little children, let us not love with word or with tongue but in deed and truth.
(1John 3:19)	And by this we will know that we are of the truth and will convince our conscience in his presence,
＊	10. TO THE CHARITABLE, THE MERCIFUL, AND THE LIBERAL TO GOD'S MINISTERS
(Prov 14:21)	The one who despises his neighbor sins, but whoever is kind to the needy is blessed.
(Prov 19:17)	The one who is gracious to the poor lends to the Lord, and the Lord will repay him for his good deed.
(Ps 37:25)	I was once young, now I am old. I have never seen a godly man abandoned, or his children forced to search for food.
(Ps 37:26)	All day long he shows compassion and lends to others, and his children are blessed.
(Prov 11:24)	One person is generous and yet grows more wealthy, but another withholds more than he should and comes to poverty.
(Prov 11:25)	A generous person will be enriched, and the one who provides water for others will himself be satisfied.
(Prov 11:27)	The one who diligently seeks good seeks favor, but the one who searches for evil – it will come to him.
(Ps 112:5)	It goes well for the one who generously lends money, and conducts his business honestly.
(Ps 112:6)	For he will never be shaken; others will always remember one who is just.
(Ps 112:9)	He generously gives to the needy; his integrity endures. He will be vindicated and honored.
(Ps 41:1)	For the music director; a psalm of David. How blessed is the one who treats the poor properly! When trouble comes, may the Lord deliver him.
(Ps 41:3)	The Lord supports him on his sickbed; you have healed him from his illness.
(Matt 10:42)	And whoever gives only a cup of cold water to one of these little ones in the name of a disciple, I tell you the truth, he will never lose his reward.”
(Eccl 11:1)	Send your grain overseas, for after many days you will get a return.
(Eccl 11:2)	Divide your merchandise among seven or even eight investments, for you do not know what calamity may happen on earth.
(Isa 58:7)	I want you to share your food with the hungry and to provide shelter for homeless, oppressed people. When you see someone naked, clothe him! Don’t turn your back on your own flesh and blood!
(Isa 58:8)	Then your light will shine like the sunrise; your restoration will quickly arrive; your godly behavior will go before you, and the Lord’s splendor will be your rear guard.
(Isa 58:10)	You must actively help the hungry and feed the oppressed. Then your light will dispel the darkness, and your darkness will be transformed into noonday.
(Isa 58:11)	The Lord will continually lead you; he will feed you even in parched regions. He will give you renewed strength, and you will be like a well-watered garden, like a spring that continually produces water.
(Isa 32:8)	An honorable man makes honorable plans; his honorable character gives him security.
(Prov 22:9)	A generous person will be blessed, for he has given some of his food to the poor.
(Prov 28:8)	The one who increases his wealth by increasing interest gathers it for someone who is gracious to the needy.
(Prov 28:27)	The one who gives to the poor will not lack, but whoever shuts his eyes to them will receive many curses.
(Luke 16:9)	And I tell you, make friends for yourselves by how you use worldly wealth, so that when it runs out you will be welcomed into the eternal homes.
(Matt 25:34)	Then the king will say to those on his right, ‘Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.
(Matt 25:36)	I was naked and you gave me clothing, I was sick and you took care of me, I was in prison and you visited me.’
(Matt 25:40)	And the king will answer them, ‘I tell you the truth, just as you did it for one of the least of these brothers or sisters of mine, you did it for me.’
(Luke 11:41)	But give from your heart to those in need, and then everything will be clean for you.
(Luke 12:33)	Sell your possessions and give to the poor. Provide yourselves purses that do not wear out – a treasure in heaven that never decreases, where no thief approaches and no moth destroys.
(Luke 14:13)	But when you host an elaborate meal, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, and the blind.
(Luke 14:14)	Then you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you, for you will be repaid at the resurrection of the righteous.”
(Luke 6:38)	Give, and it will be given to you: A good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, will be poured into your lap. For the measure you use will be the measure you receive.”
(2Cor 9:8)	And God is able to make all grace overflow to you so that because you have enough of everything in every way at all times, you will overflow in every good work.
(2Cor 9:10)	Now God who provides seed for the sower and bread for food will provide and multiply your supply of seed and will cause the harvest of your righteousness to grow.
(Heb 13:16)	And do not neglect to do good and to share what you have, for God is pleased with such sacrifices.
(Mark 10:21)	As Jesus looked at him, he felt love for him and said, “You lack one thing. Go, sell whatever you have and give the money to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. Then come, follow me.”
(2Cor 8:12)	For if the eagerness is present, the gift itself is acceptable according to whatever one has, not according to what he does not have.
(2Cor 9:6)	My point is this: The person who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and the person who sows generously will also reap generously.
(2Cor 9:7)	Each one of you should give just as he has decided in his heart, not reluctantly or under compulsion, because God loves a cheerful giver.
(Deut 15:10)	You must by all means lend to him and not be upset by doing it, for because of this the Lord your God will bless you in all your work and in everything you attempt.
(1Tim 6:17)	Command those who are rich in this world’s goods not to be haughty or to set their hope on riches, which are uncertain, but on God who richly provides us with all things for our enjoyment.
(1Tim 6:19)	In this way they will save up a treasure for themselves as a firm foundation for the future and so lay hold of what is truly life.
＊	TO ALMS IN SECRET
(Matt 6:3)	But when you do your giving, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing,
(Matt 6:4)	so that your gift may be in secret. And your Father, who sees in secret, will reward you.
＊	TO THE SUPPORTING GOD'S MINISTERS AND WORSHIP
(Prov 3:9)	Honor the Lord from your wealth and from the first fruits of all your crops;
(Prov 3:10)	then your barns will be filled completely, and your vats will overflow with new wine.
(Deut 14:29)	Then the Levites (because they have no allotment or inheritance with you), the resident foreigners, the orphans, and the widows of your villages may come and eat their fill so that the Lord your God may bless you in all the work you do.
(Mal 3:10)	“Bring the entire tithe into the storehouse so that there may be food in my temple. Test me in this matter,” says the Lord of Heaven’s Armies, “to see if I will not open for you the windows of heaven and pour out blessing for you until there is no room for it all.
(Mal 3:12)	“All nations will call you happy, for you indeed will live in a delightful land,” says the Lord of Heaven’s Armies.
(Gal 6:6)	Now the one who receives instruction in the word must share all good things with the one who teaches it.
(Gal 6:8)	because the person who sows to his own flesh will reap corruption from the flesh, but the one who sows to the Spirit will reap eternal life from the Spirit.
(Phil 4:17)	I do not say this because I am seeking a gift. Rather, I seek the credit that abounds to your account.
(Phil 4:19)	And my God will supply your every need according to his glorious riches in Christ Jesus.
＊	TO THE MERCIFUL
(Prov 11:17)	A kind person benefits himself, but a cruel person brings himself trouble.
(Matt 5:7)	“Blessed are the merciful, for they will be shown mercy.
(Ps 18:25)	You prove to be loyal to one who is faithful; you prove to be trustworthy to one who is innocent.
(Prov 3:3)	Do not let mercy and truth leave you; bind them around your neck, write them on the tablet of your heart.
(Prov 3:4)	Then you will find favor and good understanding, in the sight of God and people.
(Deut 24:12)	If the person is poor you may not use what he gives you as security for a covering.
(Deut 24:13)	You must by all means return to him at sunset the item he gave you as security so that he may sleep in his outer garment and bless you for it; it will be considered a just deed by the Lord your God.
＊	11. TO THE GIVING AND RECEIVING OF REPROOFS
(Prov 24:25)	But there will be delight for those who convict the guilty, and a pleasing blessing will come on them.
(Prov 28:23)	The one who reproves another will in the end find more favor than the one who flatters with the tongue.
(Prov 13:18)	The one who neglects discipline ends up in poverty and shame, but the one who accepts reproof is honored.
(Prov 25:12)	Like an earring of gold and an ornament of fine gold, so is a wise reprover to the ear of the one who listens.
(Prov 15:31)	The person who hears the reproof that leads to life is at home among the wise.
(Prov 15:32)	The one who refuses correction despises himself, but whoever listens to reproof acquires understanding.
＊	12. TO FORGIVING INJURIES
(Prov 20:22)	Do not say, “I will pay back evil!” Wait for the Lord, so that he may vindicate you.
(Luke 6:35)	But love your enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting nothing back. Then your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, because he is kind to ungrateful and evil people.
(Luke 6:37)	“Do not judge, and you will not be judged; do not condemn, and you will not be condemned; forgive, and you will be forgiven.
(Matt 5:44)	But I say to you, love your enemy and pray for those who persecute you,
(Matt 5:45)	so that you may be like your Father in heaven, since he causes the sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous.
(Matt 6:14)	“For if you forgive others their sins, your heavenly Father will also forgive you.
(Mark 11:25)	Whenever you stand praying, if you have anything against anyone, forgive him, so that your Father in heaven will also forgive you your sins.”
(1Pet 3:9)	Do not return evil for evil or insult for insult, but instead bless others because you were called to inherit a blessing.
(Prov 25:21)	If your enemy is hungry, give him food to eat, and if he is thirsty, give him water to drink,
(Prov 25:22)	for you will heap coals of fire on his head, and the Lord will reward you.
(Rom 12:20)	Rather, if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him a drink; for in doing this you will be heaping burning coals on his head.
＊	13. TO CHASTITY AND PURITY
(Matt 5:8)	“Blessed are the pure in heart, for they will see God.
(Ezek 18:5)	“Suppose a man is righteous. He practices what is just and right,
(Ezek 18:6)	does not eat pagan sacrifices on the mountains or pray to the idols of the house of Israel, does not defile his neighbor’s wife, does not approach a woman for marital relations during her period,
(Ezek 18:9)	and follows my statutes and observes my regulations by carrying them out. That man is righteous; he will certainly live, declares the Sovereign Lord.
(Titus 1:15)	All is pure to those who are pure. But to those who are corrupt and unbelieving, nothing is pure, but both their minds and consciences are corrupted.
(Ps 18:26)	You prove to be reliable to one who is blameless, but you prove to be deceptive to one who is perverse.
(Ps 73:1)	A psalm by Asaph. Certainly God is good to Israel, and to those whose motives are pure!
(Ps 24:3)	Who is allowed to ascend the mountain of the Lord? Who may go up to his holy dwelling place?
(Ps 24:4)	The one whose deeds are blameless and whose motives are pure, who does not lie, or make promises with no intention of keeping them.
(2Tim 2:21)	So if someone cleanses himself of such behavior, he will be a vessel for honorable use, set apart, useful for the Master, prepared for every good work.
＊	14. TO DILIGENCE
(Prov 10:4)	The one who is lazy becomes poor, but the one who works diligently becomes wealthy.
(Prov 14:23)	In all hard work there is profit, but merely talking about it only brings poverty.
(Prov 13:4)	The appetite of the sluggard craves but gets nothing, but the desire of the diligent will be abundantly satisfied.
(Prov 13:11)	Wealth gained quickly will dwindle away, but the one who gathers it little by little will become rich.
(Prov 21:5)	The plans of the diligent lead only to plenty, but everyone who is hasty comes only to poverty.
(Prov 22:29)	You have seen a person skilled in his work– he will take his position before kings; he will not take his position before obscure people.
(Prov 28:19)	The one who works his land will be satisfied with food, but whoever chases daydreams will have his fill of poverty.
(Prov 12:11)	The one who works his field will have plenty of food, but whoever chases daydreams lacks sense.
(Prov 12:24)	The diligent person will rule, but the slothful will be put to forced labor.
(Prov 12:27)	The lazy person does not roast his prey, but personal possessions are precious to the diligent.
＊	TO IMPROVING OUR TALENTS
(Matt 25:23)	His master answered, ‘Well done, good and faithful slave! You have been faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of many things. Enter into the joy of your master.’
(Matt 25:29)	For the one who has will be given more, and he will have more than enough. But the one who does not have, even what he has will be taken from him.
(Matt 13:12)	For whoever has will be given more, and will have an abundance. But whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him.
＊	MODERATION IN SLEEP
(Prov 20:13)	Do not love sleep, lest you become impoverished; open your eyes so that you might be satisfied with food.
＊	15. TO THE JUST AND HONEST
(Prov 15:27)	The one who is greedy for gain troubles his household, but whoever hates bribes will live.
(Prov 11:1)	The Lord abhors dishonest scales, but an accurate weight is his delight.
(Prov 12:21)	No harm will be directed at the righteous, but the wicked are filled with calamity.
(Prov 28:20)	A faithful person will have an abundance of blessings, but the one who hastens to gain riches will not go unpunished.
(Deut 16:20)	You must pursue justice alone so that you may live and inherit the land the Lord your God is giving you.
(Isa 33:15)	The one who lives uprightly and speaks honestly; the one who refuses to profit from oppressive measures and rejects a bribe; the one who does not plot violent crimes and does not seek to harm others –
(Isa 33:16)	This is the person who will live in a secure place; he will find safety in the rocky, mountain strongholds; he will have food and a constant supply of water.
(Prov 16:8)	Better to have a little with righteousness than to have abundant income without justice.
(Prov 21:3)	To do righteousness and justice is more acceptable to the Lord than sacrifice.
(Ps 15:5)	He does not charge interest when he lends his money. He does not take bribes to testify against the innocent. The one who lives like this will never be shaken.
(Deut 25:15)	You must have an accurate and correct stone weight and an accurate and correct measuring container, so that your life may be extended in the land the Lord your God is about to give you.
(Ezek 18:5)	“Suppose a man is righteous. He practices what is just and right,
(Ezek 18:7)	does not oppress anyone, but gives the debtor back whatever was given in pledge, does not commit robbery, but gives his bread to the hungry and clothes the naked,
(Ezek 18:9)	and follows my statutes and observes my regulations by carrying them out. That man is righteous; he will certainly live, declares the Sovereign Lord.
(Isa 56:1)	This is what the Lord says, “Promote justice! Do what is right! For I am ready to deliver you; I am ready to vindicate you openly.
(Isa 56:2)	The people who do this will be blessed, the people who commit themselves to obedience, who observe the Sabbath and do not defile it, who refrain from doing anything that is wrong.
＊	16. TO TRUTH
(1Pet 3:10)	For the one who wants to love life and see good days must keep his tongue from evil and his lips from uttering deceit.
(Ps 34:12)	Do you want to really live? Would you love to live a long, happy life?
(Ps 34:13)	Then make sure you don’t speak evil words or use deceptive speech!
(Prov 12:19)	The one who tells the truth will endure forever, but the one who lies will last only for a moment.
(Prov 12:22)	The Lord abhors a person who lies, but those who deal truthfully are his delight.
(Ps 15:1)	A psalm of David. Lord, who may be a guest in your home? Who may live on your holy hill?
(Ps 15:3)	He does not slander, or do harm to others, or insult his neighbor.
＊	17. TO CANDOR
(Matt 7:1)	“Do not judge so that you will not be judged.
(Matt 7:2)	For by the standard you judge you will be judged, and the measure you use will be the measure you receive.
(Ps 15:1)	A psalm of David. Lord, who may be a guest in your home? Who may live on your holy hill?
(Ps 15:3)	He does not slander, or do harm to others, or insult his neighbor.
＊	18. TO CONTENTMENT AND MORTIFICATION
＊	CONTENTMENT
(1Tim 6:6)	Now godliness combined with contentment brings great profit.
(Prov 14:30)	A tranquil spirit revives the body, but envy is rottenness to the bones.
(Prov 17:22)	A cheerful heart brings good healing, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones.
(Prov 15:15)	All the days of the afflicted are bad, but one with a cheerful heart has a continual feast.
(Heb 13:5)	Your conduct must be free from the love of money and you must be content with what you have, for he has said, “I will never leave you and I will never abandon you.”
(Prov 23:17)	Do not let your heart envy sinners, but rather be zealous in fearing the Lord all the time.
(Prov 23:18)	For surely there is a future, and your hope will not be cut off.
＊	MORTIFICATION OF SIN
(Rom 8:13)	(for if you live according to the flesh, you will die), but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body you will live.
(Matt 5:29)	If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away! It is better to lose one of your members than to have your whole body thrown into hell.
(Matt 5:30)	If your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away! It is better to lose one of your members than to have your whole body go into hell.
＊	TO THE SPIRITUALLY-MINDED
(Rom 8:6)	For the outlook of the flesh is death, but the outlook of the Spirit is life and peace,
＊	CHAPTER 3
＊	IN THE CULTIVATION OF CHRISTIAN CHARACTER
＊	1. TO THE MEEK, HUMBLE, CONTRITE
＊	THE MEEK
(Zeph 2:3)	Seek the Lord’s favor, all you humble people of the land who have obeyed his commands! Strive to do what is right! Strive to be humble! Maybe you will be protected on the day of the Lord’s angry judgment.
(Prov 15:1)	A gentle response turns away anger, but a harsh word stirs up wrath.
(Prov 15:18)	A quick-tempered person stirs up dissension, but one who is slow to anger calms a quarrel.
(1Pet 3:3)	Let your beauty not be external – the braiding of hair and wearing of gold jewelry or fine clothes –
(1Pet 3:4)	but the inner person of the heart, the lasting beauty of a gentle and tranquil spirit, which is precious in God’s sight.
(Prov 14:29)	Someone with great understanding is slow to anger, but the one who has a quick temper exalts folly.
(Matt 5:5)	“Blessed are the meek, for they will inherit the earth.
(Ps 25:9)	May he show the humble what is right! May he teach the humble his way!
(Ps 147:6)	The Lord lifts up the oppressed, but knocks the wicked to the ground.
(Ps 149:4)	For the Lord takes delight in his people; he exalts the oppressed by delivering them.
(Ps 37:11)	But the oppressed will possess the land and enjoy great prosperity.
(Isa 11:4)	He will treat the poor fairly, and make right decisions for the downtrodden of the earth. He will strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and order the wicked to be executed.
(Ps 22:26)	Let the oppressed eat and be filled! Let those who seek his help praise the Lord! May you live forever!
(Isa 29:19)	The downtrodden will again rejoice in the Lord; the poor among humankind will take delight in the Holy One of Israel.
(Prov 20:3)	It is an honor for a person to cease from strife, but every fool quarrels.
(Prov 19:11)	A person’s wisdom has made him slow to anger, and it is his glory to overlook an offense.
(Prov 16:32)	Better to be slow to anger than to be a mighty warrior, and one who controls his temper is better than one who captures a city.
＊	TO THE HUMBLE
(Job 22:29)	When people are brought low and you say ‘Lift them up!’ then he will save the downcast;
(Ps 9:12)	For the one who takes revenge against murderers took notice of the oppressed; he did not overlook their cry for help
(Ps 10:17)	Lord, you have heard the request of the oppressed; you make them feel secure because you listen to their prayer.
(Prov 3:34)	With arrogant scoffers he is scornful, yet he shows favor to the humble.
(Prov 11:2)	After pride came, disgrace followed; but wisdom came with humility.
(Jas 4:6)	But he gives greater grace. Therefore it says, “God opposes the proud, but he gives grace to the humble.”
(1Pet 5:5)	In the same way, you who are younger, be subject to the elders. And all of you, clothe yourselves with humility toward one another, because God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble.
(Ps 138:6)	Though the Lord is exalted, he looks after the lowly, and humbles the proud from far away.
(Prov 22:4)	The reward for humility and fearing the Lord is riches and honor and life.
(Prov 29:23)	A person’s pride will bring him low, but one who has a lowly spirit will gain honor.
(Prov 15:33)	The fear of the Lord provides wise instruction, and before honor comes humility.
(Prov 18:12)	Before destruction the heart of a person is proud, but humility comes before honor.
(Prov 16:19)	It is better to be lowly in spirit with the afflicted than to share the spoils with the proud.
(Matt 18:4)	Whoever then humbles himself like this little child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven.
(Matt 23:12)	And whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
(Luke 18:14)	I tell you that this man went down to his home justified rather than the Pharisee. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but he who humbles himself will be exalted.”
＊	THE CONTRITE AND MOURNERS
(Ps 34:18)	The Lord is near the brokenhearted; he delivers those who are discouraged.
(Ps 147:3)	He heals the brokenhearted, and bandages their wounds.
(Eccl 7:3)	Sorrow is better than laughter, because sober reflection is good for the heart.
(Isa 66:2)	My hand made them; that is how they came to be,” says the Lord. I show special favor to the humble and contrite, who respect what I have to say.
(Ps 51:17)	The sacrifices God desires are a humble spirit – O God, a humble and repentant heart you will not reject.
(Matt 5:3)	“Blessed are the poor in spirit, for the kingdom of heaven belongs to them.
(Matt 5:4)	“Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted.
(Isa 57:15)	For this is what the high and exalted one says, the one who rules forever, whose name is holy: “I dwell in an exalted and holy place, but also with the discouraged and humiliated, in order to cheer up the humiliated and to encourage the discouraged.
＊	2. TO THEM THAT SUFFER FOR RIGHTEOUSNESS' SAKE
(Matt 10:39)	Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life because of me will find it.
(2Tim 2:12)	If we endure, we will also reign with him. If we deny him, he will also deny us.
(Matt 19:29)	And whoever has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or fields for my sake will receive a hundred times as much and will inherit eternal life.
(Matt 5:10)	“Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness, for the kingdom of heaven belongs to them.
(Matt 5:12)	Rejoice and be glad, because your reward is great in heaven, for they persecuted the prophets before you in the same way.
(Rom 8:17)	And if children, then heirs (namely, heirs of God and also fellow heirs with Christ) – if indeed we suffer with him so we may also be glorified with him.
(Rom 8:35)	Who will separate us from the love of Christ? Will trouble, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword?
(Rom 8:37)	No, in all these things we have complete victory through him who loved us!
(2Cor 4:9)	we are persecuted, but not abandoned; we are knocked down, but not destroyed,
(1Pet 3:14)	But in fact, if you happen to suffer for doing what is right, you are blessed. But do not be terrified of them or be shaken.
(1Pet 3:17)	For it is better to suffer for doing good, if God wills it, than for doing evil.
(Heb 10:34)	For in fact you shared the sufferings of those in prison, and you accepted the confiscation of your belongings with joy, because you knew that you certainly had a better and lasting possession.
(Heb 10:35)	So do not throw away your confidence, because it has great reward.
(1Pet 4:12)	Dear friends, do not be astonished that a trial by fire is occurring among you, as though something strange were happening to you.
(1Pet 4:14)	If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory, who is the Spirit of God, rests on you.
＊	TO THEM THAT ARE EXCOMMUNICATED UNJUSTLY
(Isa 66:5)	Listen to the Lord’s message, you who respect his word! Your countrymen, who hate you and exclude you, supposedly for the sake of my name, say, “May the Lord be glorified, then we will witness your joy.” But they will be put to shame.
(Luke 6:22)	“Blessed are you when people hate you, and when they exclude you and insult you and reject you as evil on account of the Son of Man!
(Luke 6:23)	Rejoice in that day, and jump for joy, because your reward is great in heaven. For their ancestors did the same things to the prophets.
＊	3. TO PATIENCE AND SUBMISSION
(Heb 6:12)	so that you may not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and perseverance inherit the promises.
(Lam 3:26)	It is good to wait patiently for deliverance from the Lord.
(Lam 3:29)	Let him bury his face in the dust; perhaps there is hope.
(Lam 3:31)	For the Lord will not reject us forever.
(Prov 10:28)	The hope of the righteous is joy, but the expectation of the wicked perishes.
(Rom 5:3)	Not only this, but we also rejoice in sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance,
(Rom 5:4)	and endurance, character, and character, hope.
(Jas 1:2)	My brothers and sisters, consider it nothing but joy when you fall into all sorts of trials,
(Jas 1:4)	And let endurance have its perfect effect, so that you will be perfect and complete, not deficient in anything.
(Jas 1:12)	Happy is the one who endures testing, because when he has proven to be genuine, he will receive the crown of life that God promised to those who love him.
(Jas 5:7)	So be patient, brothers and sisters, until the Lord’s return. Think of how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the ground and is patient for it until it receives the early and late rains.
(Jas 5:8)	You also be patient and strengthen your hearts, for the Lord’s return is near.
(Jas 5:11)	Think of how we regard as blessed those who have endured. You have heard of Job’s endurance and you have seen the Lord’s purpose, that the Lord is full of compassion and mercy.
(Jas 4:10)	Humble yourselves before the Lord and he will exalt you.
(1Pet 2:20)	For what credit is it if you sin and are mistreated and endure it? But if you do good and suffer and so endure, this finds favor with God.
(1Pet 5:6)	And God will exalt you in due time, if you humble yourselves under his mighty hand
(Heb 10:35)	So do not throw away your confidence, because it has great reward.
(Heb 10:37)	For just a little longer and he who is coming will arrive and not delay.
＊	4. TO PERSEVERANCE
(Gal 6:9)	So we must not grow weary in doing good, for in due time we will reap, if we do not give up.
(2John 1:8)	Watch out, so that you do not lose the things we have worked for, but receive a full reward.
(2John 1:9)	Everyone who goes on ahead and does not remain in the teaching of Christ does not have God. The one who remains in this teaching has both the Father and the Son.
(Matt 10:22)	And you will be hated by everyone because of my name. But the one who endures to the end will be saved!
(Matt 24:13)	But the person who endures to the end will be saved.
(Rev 2:10)	Do not be afraid of the things you are about to suffer. The devil is about to have some of you thrown into prison so you may be tested, and you will experience suffering for ten days. Remain faithful even to the point of death, and I will give you the crown that is life itself.
(John 8:31)	Then Jesus said to those Judeans who had believed him, “If you continue to follow my teaching, you are really my disciples
(John 8:32)	and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.”
(1Cor 15:58)	So then, dear brothers and sisters, be firm. Do not be moved! Always be outstanding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord.
(Heb 10:23)	And let us hold unwaveringly to the hope that we confess, for the one who made the promise is trustworthy.
(Heb 10:35)	So do not throw away your confidence, because it has great reward.
(1John 2:24)	As for you, what you have heard from the beginning must remain in you. If what you heard from the beginning remains in you, you also will remain in the Son and in the Father.
(1John 2:28)	And now, little children, remain in him, so that when he appears we may have confidence and not shrink away from him in shame when he comes back.
(John 15:7)	If you remain in me and my words remain in you, ask whatever you want, and it will be done for you.
＊	TO HIM THAT OVERCOMES
(Rom 12:21)	Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.
(Rev 21:7)	The one who conquers will inherit these things, and I will be his God and he will be my son.
(Rev 2:7)	The one who has an ear had better hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers, I will permit him to eat from the tree of life that is in the paradise of God.’
(Rev 3:5)	The one who conquers will be dressed like them in white clothing, and I will never erase his name from the book of life, but will declare his name before my Father and before his angels.
(Rev 3:12)	The one who conquers I will make a pillar in the temple of my God, and he will never depart from it. I will write on him the name of my God and the name of the city of my God (the new Jerusalem that comes down out of heaven from my God), and my new name as well.
(Rev 3:21)	I will grant the one who conquers permission to sit with me on my throne, just as I too conquered and sat down with my Father on his throne.
(Rev 2:11)	The one who has an ear had better hear what the Spirit says to the churches. The one who conquers will in no way be harmed by the second death.’
(Rev 2:17)	The one who has an ear had better hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers, I will give him some of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone, and on that stone will be written a new name that no one can understand except the one who receives it.’
(Rev 2:26)	And to the one who conquers and who continues in my deeds until the end, I will give him authority over the nations –
(Rev 2:28)	just as I have received the right to rule from my Father – and I will give him the morning star.
＊	PART THREE
＊	PROMISES OF THE GROWTH AND GLORY OF THE CHURCH
＊	1. THE ENLARGEMENT OF THE CHURCH, AND SPREAD OF THE GOSPEL, AND KINGDOM OF CHRIST
(Ps 2:8)	Ask me, and I will give you the nations as your inheritance, the ends of the earth as your personal property.
(Ps 2:9)	You will break them with an iron scepter; you will smash them like a potter’s jar!’”
(Isa 19:21)	The Lord will reveal himself to the Egyptians, and they will acknowledge the Lord’s authority at that time. They will present sacrifices and offerings; they will make vows to the Lord and fulfill them.
(Isa 19:24)	At that time Israel will be the third member of the group, along with Egypt and Assyria, and will be a recipient of blessing in the earth.
(Isa 19:25)	The Lord of Heaven’s Armies will pronounce a blessing over the earth, saying, “Blessed be my people, Egypt, and the work of my hands, Assyria, and my special possession, Israel!”
(Ps 68:31)	They come with red cloth from Egypt, Ethiopia voluntarily offers tribute to God.
(Ps 67:2)	Then those living on earth will know what you are like; all nations will know how you deliver your people.
(Ps 67:7)	May God bless us! Then all the ends of the earth will give him the honor he deserves.
(Ps 72:8)	May he rule from sea to sea, and from the Euphrates River to the ends of the earth!
(Ps 72:11)	All kings will bow down to him; all nations will serve him.
(Ps 72:17)	May his fame endure! May his dynasty last as long as the sun remains in the sky! May they use his name when they formulate their blessings! May all nations consider him to be favored by God!
(Ps 72:19)	His glorious name deserves praise forevermore! May his majestic splendor fill the whole earth! We agree! We agree!
(Isa 2:2)	In the future the mountain of the Lord’s temple will endure as the most important of mountains, and will be the most prominent of hills. All the nations will stream to it,
(Isa 2:3)	many peoples will come and say, “Come, let us go up to the Lord’s mountain, to the temple of the God of Jacob, so he can teach us his requirements, and we can follow his standards.” For Zion will be the center for moral instruction; the Lord’s message will issue from Jerusalem.
(Mic 4:2)	Many nations will come, saying, “Come on! Let’s go up to the Lord’s mountain, to the temple of Jacob’s God, so he can teach us his ways and we can live by his laws.” For instruction will proceed from Zion, the Lord’s message from Jerusalem.
(Ps 86:9)	All the nations, whom you created, will come and worship you, O Lord. They will honor your name.
(Ps 110:3)	Your people willingly follow you when you go into battle. On the holy hills at sunrise the dew of your youth belongs to you.
(Isa 11:10)	At that time a root from Jesse will stand like a signal flag for the nations. Nations will look to him for guidance, and his residence will be majestic.
(Ps 102:15)	The nations will respect the reputation of the Lord, and all the kings of the earth will respect his splendor,
(Ps 102:16)	when the Lord rebuilds Zion, and reveals his splendor,
(Ps 22:27)	Let all the people of the earth acknowledge the Lord and turn to him! Let all the nations worship you!
(Ps 22:28)	For the Lord is king and rules over the nations.
(Isa 23:18)	Her profits and earnings will be set apart for the Lord. They will not be stored up or accumulated, for her profits will be given to those who live in the Lord’s presence and will be used to purchase large quantities of food and beautiful clothes.
(Isa 27:6)	The time is coming when Jacob will take root; Israel will blossom and grow branches. The produce will fill the surface of the world.
(Isa 40:3)	A voice cries out, “In the wilderness clear a way for the Lord; build a level road through the rift valley for our God.
(Isa 40:5)	The splendor of the Lord will be revealed, and all people will see it at the same time. For the Lord has decreed it.”
(Isa 42:1)	“Here is my servant whom I support, my chosen one in whom I take pleasure. I have placed my Spirit on him; he will make just decrees for the nations.
(Isa 42:4)	He will not grow dim or be crushed before establishing justice on the earth; the coastlands will wait in anticipation for his decrees.”
(Isa 42:6)	“I, the Lord, officially commission you; I take hold of your hand. I protect you and make you a covenant mediator for people, and a light to the nations,
(Isa 42:7)	to open blind eyes, to release prisoners from dungeons, those who live in darkness from prisons.
(Isa 45:23)	I solemnly make this oath – what I say is true and reliable: ‘Surely every knee will bow to me, every tongue will solemnly affirm;
(Isa 45:24)	they will say about me, “Yes, the Lord is a powerful deliverer.”’” All who are angry at him will cower before him.
(Isa 45:14)	This is what the Lord says: “The profit of Egypt and the revenue of Ethiopia, along with the Sabeans, those tall men, will be brought to you and become yours. They will walk behind you, coming along in chains. They will bow down to you and pray to you: ‘Truly God is with you; he has no peer; there is no other God!’”
(Isa 49:6)	he says, “Is it too insignificant a task for you to be my servant, to reestablish the tribes of Jacob, and restore the remnant of Israel? I will make you a light to the nations, so you can bring my deliverance to the remote regions of the earth.”
(Isa 49:12)	Look, they come from far away! Look, some come from the north and west, and others from the land of Sinim!
(Isa 49:18)	Look all around you! All of them gather to you. As surely as I live,” says the Lord, “you will certainly wear all of them like jewelry; you will put them on as if you were a bride.
(Isa 49:20)	Yet the children born during your time of bereavement will say within your hearing, ‘This place is too cramped for us, make room for us so we can live here.’
(Isa 49:8)	This is what the Lord says: “At the time I decide to show my favor, I will respond to you; in the day of deliverance I will help you; I will protect you and make you a covenant mediator for people, to rebuild the land and to reassign the desolate property.
(Isa 49:9)	You will say to the prisoners, ‘Come out,’ and to those who are in dark dungeons, ‘Emerge.’ They will graze beside the roads; on all the slopes they will find pasture.
(Isa 49:11)	I will make all my mountains into a road; I will construct my roadways.”
(Isa 49:19)	Yes, your land lies in ruins; it is desolate and devastated. But now you will be too small to hold your residents, and those who devoured you will be far away.
(Isa 49:21)	Then you will think to yourself, ‘Who bore these children for me? I was bereaved and barren, dismissed and divorced. Who raised these children? Look, I was left all alone; where did these children come from?’”
(Isa 49:22)	This is what the Sovereign Lord says: “Look I will raise my hand to the nations; I will raise my signal flag to the peoples. They will bring your sons in their arms and carry your daughters on their shoulders.
(Isa 60:4)	Look all around you! They all gather and come to you – your sons come from far away and your daughters are escorted by guardians.
(Isa 52:10)	The Lord reveals his royal power in the sight of all the nations; the entire earth sees our God deliver.
(Isa 60:3)	Nations come to your light, kings to your bright light.
(Isa 60:8)	Who are these who float along like a cloud, who fly like doves to their shelters?
(Isa 60:10)	Foreigners will rebuild your walls; their kings will serve you. Even though I struck you down in my anger, I will restore my favor and have compassion on you.
(Isa 60:4)	Look all around you! They all gather and come to you – your sons come from far away and your daughters are escorted by guardians.
(Isa 60:5)	Then you will look and smile, you will be excited and your heart will swell with pride. For the riches of distant lands will belong to you and the wealth of nations will come to you.
(Isa 60:6)	Camel caravans will cover your roads, young camels from Midian and Ephah. All the merchants of Sheba will come, bringing gold and incense and singing praises to the Lord.
(Isa 60:7)	All the sheep of Kedar will be gathered to you; the rams of Nebaioth will be available to you as sacrifices. They will go up on my altar acceptably, and I will bestow honor on my majestic temple.
(Isa 60:11)	Your gates will remain open at all times; they will not be shut during the day or at night, so that the wealth of nations may be delivered, with their kings leading the way.
(Isa 60:16)	You will drink the milk of nations; you will nurse at the breasts of kings. Then you will recognize that I, the Lord, am your deliverer, your protector, the Powerful One of Jacob.
(Isa 51:4)	Pay attention to me, my people! Listen to me, my people! For I will issue a decree, I will make my justice a light to the nations.
(Isa 51:5)	I am ready to vindicate, I am ready to deliver, I will establish justice among the nations. The coastlands wait patiently for me; they wait in anticipation for the revelation of my power.
(Isa 51:16)	I commission you as my spokesman; I cover you with the palm of my hand, to establish the sky and to found the earth, to say to Zion, ‘You are my people.’”
(Isa 55:4)	Look, I made him a witness to nations, a ruler and commander of nations.”
(Isa 55:5)	Look, you will summon nations you did not previously know; nations that did not previously know you will run to you, because of the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, for he bestows honor on you.
(Isa 59:19)	In the west, people respect the Lord’s reputation; in the east they recognize his splendor. For he comes like a rushing stream driven on by wind sent from the Lord.
(Isa 59:20)	“A protector comes to Zion, to those in Jacob who repent of their rebellious deeds,” says the Lord.
(Isa 54:1)	“Shout for joy, O barren one who has not given birth! Give a joyful shout and cry out, you who have not been in labor! For the children of the desolate one are more numerous than the children of the married woman,” says the Lord.
(Isa 54:3)	For you will spread out to the right and to the left; your children will conquer nations and will resettle desolate cities.
(Matt 24:14)	And this gospel of the kingdom will be preached throughout the whole inhabited earth as a testimony to all the nations, and then the end will come.
(Isa 66:8)	Who has ever heard of such a thing? Who has ever seen this? Can a country be brought forth in one day? Can a nation be born in a single moment? Yet as soon as Zion goes into labor she gives birth to sons!
(Isa 66:9)	“Do I bring a baby to the birth opening and then not deliver it?” asks the Lord. “Or do I bring a baby to the point of delivery and then hold it back?” asks your God.
(Isa 66:18)	“I hate their deeds and thoughts! So I am coming to gather all the nations and ethnic groups; they will come and witness my splendor.
(Isa 66:20)	They will bring back all your countrymen from all the nations as an offering to the Lord. They will bring them on horses, in chariots, in wagons, on mules, and on camels to my holy hill Jerusalem,” says the Lord, “just as the Israelites bring offerings to the Lord’s temple in ritually pure containers.
(Isa 66:23)	From one month to the next and from one Sabbath to the next, all people will come to worship me,” says the Lord.
(Zech 2:10)	“Sing out and be happy, Zion my daughter! For look, I have come; I will settle in your midst,” says the Lord.
(Zech 2:11)	“Many nations will join themselves to the Lord on the day of salvation, and they will also be my people. Indeed, I will settle in the midst of you all.” Then you will know that the Lord of Heaven’s Armies has sent me to you.
(Dan 2:44)	In the days of those kings the God of heaven will raise up an everlasting kingdom that will not be destroyed and a kingdom that will not be left to another people. It will break in pieces and bring about the demise of all these kingdoms. But it will stand forever.
(Dan 7:13)	I was watching in the night visions, “And with the clouds of the sky one like a son of man was approaching. He went up to the Ancient of Days and was escorted before him.
(Dan 7:14)	To him was given ruling authority, honor, and sovereignty. All peoples, nations, and language groups were serving him. His authority is eternal and will not pass away. His kingdom will not be destroyed.
(Dan 7:27)	Then the kingdom, authority, and greatness of the kingdoms under all of heaven will be delivered to the people of the holy ones of the Most High. His kingdom is an eternal kingdom; all authorities will serve him and obey him.’
(Zech 14:9)	The Lord will then be king over all the earth. In that day the Lord will be seen as one with a single name.
(Matt 8:11)	I tell you, many will come from the east and west to share the banquet with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven,
(Acts 15:17)	so that the rest of humanity may seek the Lord, namely, all the Gentiles I have called to be my own,’ says the Lord, who makes these things
(Amos 9:11)	“In that day I will rebuild the collapsing hut of David. I will seal its gaps, repair its ruins, and restore it to what it was like in days gone by.
(Amos 9:12)	As a result they will conquer those left in Edom and all the nations subject to my rule.” The Lord, who is about to do this, is speaking!
(Isa 53:10)	Though the Lord desired to crush him and make him ill, once restitution is made, he will see descendants and enjoy long life, and the Lord’s purpose will be accomplished through him.
(Isa 53:12)	So I will assign him a portion with the multitudes, he will divide the spoils of victory with the powerful, because he willingly submitted to death and was numbered with the rebels, when he lifted up the sin of many and intervened on behalf of the rebels.”
(John 12:32)	And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself.”
(Zech 6:15)	Then those who are far away will come and build the temple of the Lord so that you may know that the Lord of Heaven’s Armies has sent me to you. This will all come to pass if you completely obey the voice of the Lord your God.”’”
(Isa 65:17)	For look, I am ready to create new heavens and a new earth! The former ones will not be remembered; no one will think about them anymore.
(Mal 1:11)	For from the east to the west my name will be great among the nations. Incense and pure offerings will be offered in my name everywhere, for my name will be great among the nations,” says the Lord of Heaven’s Armies.
(Zech 8:21)	The inhabitants of one will go to another and say, “Let’s go up at once to ask the favor of the Lord, to seek the Lord of Heaven’s Armies. Indeed, I’ll go with you.”’
(Zech 8:23)	The Lord of Heaven’s Armies says, ‘In those days ten people from all languages and nations will grasp hold of – indeed, grab – the robe of one Jew and say, “Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you.”’”
(Rev 11:15)	Then the seventh angel blew his trumpet, and there were loud voices in heaven saying: “The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he will reign for ever and ever.”
(Rev 7:9)	After these things I looked, and here was an enormous crowd that no one could count, made up of persons from every nation, tribe, people, and language, standing before the throne and before the Lamb dressed in long white robes, and with palm branches in their hands.
(Rev 7:10)	They were shouting out in a loud voice, “Salvation belongs to our God, who is seated on the throne, and to the Lamb!”
(Rev 12:10)	Then I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, “The salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God, and the ruling authority of his Christ, have now come, because the accuser of our brothers and sisters, the one who accuses them day and night before our God, has been thrown down.
＊	2. GLORY OF THE CHURCH
(Rev 21:18)	The city’s wall is made of jasper and the city is pure gold, like transparent glass.
(Rev 21:21)	And the twelve gates are twelve pearls – each one of the gates is made from just one pearl! The main street of the city is pure gold, like transparent glass.
(Rev 21:10)	So he took me away in the Spirit to a huge, majestic mountain and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, descending out of heaven from God.
(Rev 21:11)	The city possesses the glory of God; its brilliance is like a precious jewel, like a stone of crystal-clear jasper.
(Rev 21:22)	Now I saw no temple in the city, because the Lord God – the All-Powerful – and the Lamb are its temple.
(Rev 21:26)	They will bring the grandeur and the wealth of the nations into it,
(Ps 45:13)	The princess looks absolutely magnificent, decked out in pearls and clothed in a brocade trimmed with gold.
(Isa 54:11)	“O afflicted one, driven away, and unconsoled! Look, I am about to set your stones in antimony and I lay your foundation with lapis lazuli.
(Isa 54:12)	I will make your pinnacles out of gems, your gates out of beryl, and your outer wall out of beautiful stones.
(Isa 60:1)	“Arise! Shine! For your light arrives! The splendor of the Lord shines on you!
(Isa 60:2)	For, look, darkness covers the earth and deep darkness covers the nations, but the Lord shines on you; his splendor appears over you.
(Isa 60:13)	The splendor of Lebanon will come to you, its evergreens, firs, and cypresses together, to beautify my palace; I will bestow honor on my throne room.
(Isa 60:15)	You were once abandoned and despised, with no one passing through, but I will make you a permanent source of pride and joy to coming generations.
(Isa 60:19)	The sun will no longer supply light for you by day, nor will the moon’s brightness shine on you; the Lord will be your permanent source of light – the splendor of your God will shine upon you.
(Ps 87:3)	People say wonderful things about you, O city of God. (Selah)
(Isa 46:13)	I am bringing my deliverance near, it is not far away; I am bringing my salvation near, it does not wait. I will save Zion; I will adorn Israel with my splendor.”
(Isa 62:2)	Nations will see your vindication, and all kings your splendor. You will be called by a new name that the Lord himself will give you.
(Isa 62:3)	You will be a majestic crown in the hand of the Lord, a royal turban in the hand of your God.
(Ps 48:2)	It is lofty and pleasing to look at, a source of joy to the whole earth. Mount Zion resembles the peaks of Zaphon; it is the city of the great king.
(Ps 48:12)	Walk around Zion! Encircle it! Count its towers!
(Ps 48:13)	Consider its defenses! Walk through its fortresses, so you can tell the next generation about it!
＊	3. INCREASE OF LIGHT AND KNOWLEDGE, AND OF THE MEANS OF GRACE
(Isa 54:13)	All your children will be followers of the Lord, and your children will enjoy great prosperity.
(Dan 12:4)	“But you, Daniel, close up these words and seal the book until the time of the end. Many will dash about, and knowledge will increase.”
(Isa 11:9)	They will no longer injure or destroy on my entire royal mountain. For there will be universal submission to the Lord’s sovereignty, just as the waters completely cover the sea.
(Isa 25:6)	The Lord of Heaven’s Armies will hold a banquet for all the nations on this mountain. At this banquet there will be plenty of meat and aged wine – tender meat and choicest wine.
(Isa 25:7)	On this mountain he will swallow up the shroud that is over all the peoples, the woven covering that is over all the nations;
(Isa 41:18)	I will make streams flow down the slopes and produce springs in the middle of the valleys. I will turn the wilderness into a pool of water and the arid land into springs.
(Isa 41:19)	I will make cedars, acacias, myrtles, and olive trees grow in the wilderness; I will make evergreens, firs, and cypresses grow together in the arid rift valley.
(Isa 35:6)	Then the lame will leap like a deer, the mute tongue will shout for joy; for water will burst forth in the wilderness, streams in the arid rift valley.
(Isa 35:8)	A thoroughfare will be there – it will be called the Way of Holiness. The unclean will not travel on it; it is reserved for those authorized to use it – fools will not stray into it.
(Isa 52:7)	How delightful it is to see approaching over the mountains the feet of a messenger who announces peace, a messenger who brings good news, who announces deliverance, who says to Zion, “Your God reigns!”
(Isa 52:8)	Listen, your watchmen shout; in unison they shout for joy, for they see with their very own eyes the Lord’s return to Zion.
(Isa 29:18)	At that time the deaf will be able to hear words read from a scroll, and the eyes of the blind will be able to see through deep darkness.
(Isa 29:24)	Those who stray morally will gain understanding; those who complain will acquire insight.
＊	4. INCREASE OF PURITY, HOLINESS, AND RIGHTEOUSNESS
(Isa 33:5)	The Lord is exalted, indeed, he lives in heaven; he fills Zion with justice and fairness.
(Isa 33:6)	He is your constant source of stability; he abundantly provides safety and great wisdom; he gives all this to those who fear him.
(Isa 60:21)	All of your people will be godly; they will possess the land permanently. I will plant them like a shoot; they will be the product of my labor, through whom I reveal my splendor.
(Isa 4:3)	Those remaining in Zion, those left in Jerusalem, will be called “holy,” all in Jerusalem who are destined to live.
(Isa 4:4)	At that time the Lord will wash the excrement from Zion’s women, he will rinse the bloodstains from Jerusalem’s midst, as he comes to judge and to bring devastation.
(Rev 19:8)	She was permitted to be dressed in bright, clean, fine linen” (for the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints).
(Isa 32:15)	This desolation will continue until new life is poured out on us from heaven. Then the wilderness will become an orchard and the orchard will be considered a forest.
(Isa 32:16)	Justice will settle down in the wilderness and fairness will live in the orchard.
(Mal 3:3)	He will act like a refiner and purifier of silver and will cleanse the Levites and refine them like gold and silver. Then they will offer the Lord a proper offering.
(Mal 3:4)	The offerings of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasing to the Lord as in former times and years past.
(Zech 14:20)	On that day the bells of the horses will bear the inscription “Holy to the Lord.” The cooking pots in the Lord’s temple will be as holy as the bowls in front of the altar.
(Zech 14:21)	Every cooking pot in Jerusalem and Judah will become holy in the sight of the Lord of Heaven’s Armies, so that all who offer sacrifices may come and use some of them to boil their sacrifices in them. On that day there will no longer be a Canaanite in the house of the Lord of Heaven’s Armies.
(Ps 72:5)	People will fear you as long as the sun and moon remain in the sky, for generation after generation.
(Isa 45:8)	O sky, rain down from above! Let the clouds send down showers of deliverance! Let the earth absorb it so salvation may grow, and deliverance may sprout up along with it. I, the Lord, create it.
(Isa 61:11)	For just as the ground produces its crops and a garden yields its produce, so the Sovereign Lord will cause deliverance to grow, and give his people reason to praise him in the sight of all the nations.
(Ps 85:10)	Loyal love and faithfulness meet; deliverance and peace greet each other with a kiss.
(Ps 85:11)	Faithfulness grows from the ground, and deliverance looks down from the sky.
(Ps 85:13)	Deliverance goes before him, and prepares a pathway for him.
＊	5. PEACE, LOVE AND UNITY
(Isa 2:4)	He will judge disputes between nations; he will settle cases for many peoples. They will beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. Nations will not take up the sword against other nations, and they will no longer train for war.
(John 17:20)	“I am not praying only on their behalf, but also on behalf of those who believe in me through their testimony,
(John 17:23)	I in them and you in me – that they may be completely one, so that the world will know that you sent me, and you have loved them just as you have loved me.
(Isa 11:6)	A wolf will reside with a lamb, and a leopard will lie down with a young goat; an ox and a young lion will graze together, as a small child leads them along.
(Isa 11:9)	They will no longer injure or destroy on my entire royal mountain. For there will be universal submission to the Lord’s sovereignty, just as the waters completely cover the sea.
(Isa 11:13)	Ephraim’s jealousy will end, and Judah’s hostility will be eliminated. Ephraim will no longer be jealous of Judah, and Judah will no longer be hostile toward Ephraim.
(Ps 72:3)	The mountains will bring news of peace to the people, and the hills will announce justice.
(Ps 72:7)	During his days the godly will flourish; peace will prevail as long as the moon remains in the sky.
(Eph 4:16)	From him the whole body grows, fitted and held together through every supporting ligament. As each one does its part, the body builds itself up in love.
＊	6. SUBMISSION AND DESTRUCTION OF THE ENEMIES OF THE CHURCH
(Isa 27:1)	At that time the Lord will punish with his destructive, great, and powerful sword Leviathan the fast-moving serpent, Leviathan the squirming serpent; he will kill the sea monster.
(Ps 110:2)	The Lord extends your dominion from Zion. Rule in the midst of your enemies!
(Ps 110:5)	O Lord, at your right hand he strikes down kings in the day he unleashes his anger.
(Ps 110:6)	He executes judgment against the nations; he fills the valleys with corpses; he shatters their heads over the vast battlefield.
(Isa 59:19)	In the west, people respect the Lord’s reputation; in the east they recognize his splendor. For he comes like a rushing stream driven on by wind sent from the Lord.
(Isa 11:4)	He will treat the poor fairly, and make right decisions for the downtrodden of the earth. He will strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and order the wicked to be executed.
(Isa 41:11)	Look, all who were angry at you will be ashamed and humiliated; your adversaries will be reduced to nothing and perish.
(Isa 41:12)	When you will look for your opponents, you will not find them; your enemies will be reduced to absolutely nothing.
(Isa 41:15)	“Look, I am making you like a sharp threshing sledge, new and double-edged. You will thresh the mountains and crush them; you will make the hills like straw.
(Isa 41:16)	You will winnow them and the wind will blow them away; the wind will scatter them. You will rejoice in the Lord; you will boast in the Holy One of Israel.
(Isa 49:24)	Can spoils be taken from a warrior, or captives be rescued from a conqueror?
(Isa 49:26)	I will make your oppressors eat their own flesh; they will get drunk on their own blood, as if it were wine. Then all humankind will recognize that I am the Lord, your deliverer, your protector, the Powerful One of Jacob.”
(Isa 60:14)	The children of your oppressors will come bowing to you; all who treated you with disrespect will bow down at your feet. They will call you, ‘The City of the Lord, Zion of the Holy One of Israel.’
＊	THE DESTRUCTION OF ANTICHRIST, BABYLON, ETC.
(2Thess 2:8)	and then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord will destroy by the breath of his mouth and wipe out by the manifestation of his arrival.
(Dan 7:24)	The ten horns mean that ten kings will arise from that kingdom. Another king will arise after them, but he will be different from the earlier ones. He will humiliate three kings.
(Dan 7:26)	But the court will convene, and his ruling authority will be removed – destroyed and abolished forever!
(Rev 14:9)	A third angel followed the first two, declaring in a loud voice: “If anyone worships the beast and his image, and takes the mark on his forehead or his hand,
(Rev 14:10)	that person will also drink of the wine of God’s anger that has been mixed undiluted in the cup of his wrath, and he will be tortured with fire and sulfur in front of the holy angels and in front of the Lamb.
(Ezek 26:19)	“For this is what the Sovereign Lord says: When I make you desolate like the uninhabited cities, when I bring up the deep over you and the surging waters overwhelm you,
(Ezek 26:21)	I will bring terrors on you, and you will be no more! Though you are sought after, you will never be found again, declares the Sovereign Lord.”
(Rev 18:2)	He shouted with a powerful voice: “Fallen, fallen, is Babylon the great! She has become a lair for demons, a haunt for every unclean spirit, a haunt for every unclean bird, a haunt for every unclean and detested beast.
(Rev 19:19)	Then I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies assembled to do battle with the one who rode the horse and with his army.
(Rev 19:20)	Now the beast was seized, and along with him the false prophet who had performed the signs on his behalf – signs by which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast and those who worshiped his image. Both of them were thrown alive into the lake of fire burning with sulfur.
(Rev 20:7)	Now when the thousand years are finished, Satan will be released from his prison
(Rev 20:9)	They went up on the broad plain of the earth and encircled the camp of the saints and the beloved city, but fire came down from heaven and devoured them completely.
(Ezek 38:1)	The Lord’s message came to me:
(Ezek 39:1)	“As for you, son of man, prophesy against Gog, and say: ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: Look, I am against you, O Gog, chief prince of Meshech and Tubal!
＊	7. FAVOR AND SUBMISSION OF KINGS TO THE KINGDOM OF CHRIST
(Isa 52:15)	so now he will startle many nations. Kings will be shocked by his exaltation, for they will witness something unannounced to them, and they will understand something they had not heard about.
(Isa 49:7)	This is what the Lord, the protector of Israel, their Holy One, says to the one who is despised and rejected by nations, a servant of rulers: “Kings will see and rise in respect, princes will bow down, because of the faithful Lord, the Holy One of Israel who has chosen you.”
(Isa 49:23)	Kings will be your children’s guardians; their princesses will nurse your children. With their faces to the ground they will bow down to you and they will lick the dirt on your feet. Then you will recognize that I am the Lord; those who wait patiently for me are not put to shame.
(Isa 60:3)	Nations come to your light, kings to your bright light.
(Isa 60:10)	Foreigners will rebuild your walls; their kings will serve you. Even though I struck you down in my anger, I will restore my favor and have compassion on you.
(Isa 60:11)	Your gates will remain open at all times; they will not be shut during the day or at night, so that the wealth of nations may be delivered, with their kings leading the way.
(Isa 60:16)	You will drink the milk of nations; you will nurse at the breasts of kings. Then you will recognize that I, the Lord, am your deliverer, your protector, the Powerful One of Jacob.
＊	8. THE SECURITY, TRANQUILITY, AND PROSPERITY OF THE CHURCH
(Isa 51:3)	Certainly the Lord will console Zion; he will console all her ruins. He will make her wilderness like Eden, her arid rift valley like the Garden of the Lord. Happiness and joy will be restored to her, thanksgiving and the sound of music.
(Isa 33:20)	Look at Zion, the city where we hold religious festivals! You will see Jerusalem, a peaceful settlement, a tent that stays put; its stakes will never be pulled up; none of its ropes will snap in two.
(Isa 33:22)	For the Lord, our ruler, the Lord, our commander, the Lord, our king – he will deliver us.
(Matt 16:18)	And I tell you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overpower it.
(Isa 54:14)	You will be reestablished when I vindicate you. You will not experience oppression; indeed, you will not be afraid. You will not be terrified, for nothing frightening will come near you.
(Isa 54:15)	If anyone dares to challenge you, it will not be my doing! Whoever tries to challenge you will be defeated.
(Isa 54:17)	No weapon forged to be used against you will succeed; you will refute everyone who tries to accuse you. This is what the Lord will do for his servants – I will vindicate them,” says the Lord.
(Isa 66:10)	Be happy for Jerusalem and rejoice with her, all you who love her! Share in her great joy, all you who have mourned over her!
(Isa 66:12)	For this is what the Lord says: “Look, I am ready to extend to her prosperity that will flow like a river, the riches of nations will flow into her like a stream that floods its banks. You will nurse from her breast and be carried at her side; you will play on her knees.
(Isa 66:13)	As a mother consoles a child, so I will console you, and you will be consoled over Jerusalem.”
(Isa 66:14)	When you see this, you will be happy, and you will be revived. The Lord will reveal his power to his servants and his anger to his enemies.
(Jer 33:16)	Under his rule Judah will enjoy safety and Jerusalem will live in security. At that time Jerusalem will be called “The Lord has provided us with justice.”
(Isa 27:2)	When that time comes, sing about a delightful vineyard!
(Isa 27:3)	I, the Lord, protect it; I water it regularly. I guard it night and day, so no one can harm it.
(Dan 7:27)	Then the kingdom, authority, and greatness of the kingdoms under all of heaven will be delivered to the people of the holy ones of the Most High. His kingdom is an eternal kingdom; all authorities will serve him and obey him.’
(Ps 102:13)	You will rise up and have compassion on Zion. For it is time to have mercy on her, for the appointed time has come.
(Ps 102:14)	Indeed, your servants take delight in her stones, and feel compassion for the dust of her ruins.
(Ps 102:16)	when the Lord rebuilds Zion, and reveals his splendor,
(Isa 4:5)	Then the Lord will create over all of Mount Zion and over its convocations a cloud and smoke by day and a bright flame of fire by night; indeed a canopy will accompany the Lord’s glorious presence.
(Isa 4:6)	By day it will be a shelter to provide shade from the heat, as well as safety and protection from the heavy downpour.
(Isa 65:18)	But be happy and rejoice forevermore over what I am about to create! For look, I am ready to create Jerusalem to be a source of joy, and her people to be a source of happiness.
(Isa 65:19)	Jerusalem will bring me joy, and my people will bring me happiness. The sound of weeping or cries of sorrow will never be heard in her again.
＊	9. THE PERPETUAL CONTINUANCE OF THE CHURCH
(Isa 66:22)	“For just as the new heavens and the new earth I am about to make will remain standing before me,” says the Lord, “so your descendants and your name will remain.
(Jer 31:35)	The Lord has made a promise to Israel. He promises it as the one who fixed the sun to give light by day and the moon and stars to give light by night. He promises it as the one who stirs up the sea so that its waves roll. His name is the Lord of Heaven’s Armies.
(Jer 31:37)	The Lord says, “I will not reject all the descendants of Israel because of all that they have done. That could only happen if the heavens above could be measured or the foundations of the earth below could all be explored,” says the Lord.
(Jer 33:20)	“I, the Lord, make the following promise: ‘I have made a covenant with the day and with the night that they will always come at their proper times. Only if you people could break that covenant
(Jer 33:22)	I will make the children who follow one another in the line of my servant David very numerous. I will also make the Levites who minister before me very numerous. I will make them all as numerous as the stars in the sky and as the sands which are on the seashore.’”
(Jer 33:25)	But I, the Lord, make the following promise: I have made a covenant governing the coming of day and night. I have established the fixed laws governing heaven and earth.
(Jer 33:26)	Just as surely as I have done this, so surely will I never reject the descendants of Jacob. Nor will I ever refuse to choose one of my servant David’s descendants to rule over the descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Indeed, I will restore them and show mercy to them.”
(Matt 28:20)	teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And remember, I am with you always, to the end of the age.”
(Luke 1:33)	He will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom will never end.”
(Dan 7:14)	To him was given ruling authority, honor, and sovereignty. All peoples, nations, and language groups were serving him. His authority is eternal and will not pass away. His kingdom will not be destroyed.
(Rev 11:15)	Then the seventh angel blew his trumpet, and there were loud voices in heaven saying: “The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he will reign for ever and ever.”
(Dan 2:44)	In the days of those kings the God of heaven will raise up an everlasting kingdom that will not be destroyed and a kingdom that will not be left to another people. It will break in pieces and bring about the demise of all these kingdoms. But it will stand forever.
(Isa 59:21)	“As for me, this is my promise to them,” says the Lord. “My Spirit, who is upon you, and my words, which I have placed in your mouth, will not depart from your mouth or from the mouths of your children and descendants from this time forward,” says the Lord.
＊	10. THE CONVERSION AND RESTORATION OF THE JEWS
(Zech 14:11)	And people will settle there, and there will no longer be the threat of divine extermination – Jerusalem will dwell in security.
(Ezek 16:55)	As for your sisters, Sodom and her daughters will be restored to their former status, Samaria and her daughters will be restored to their former status, and you and your daughters will be restored to your former status.
(Ezek 16:60)	Yet I will remember the covenant I made with you in the days of your youth, and I will establish a lasting covenant with you.
(Ezek 16:61)	Then you will remember your conduct, and be ashamed when you receive your older and younger sisters. I will give them to you as daughters, but not on account of my covenant with you.
(Ezek 16:62)	I will establish my covenant with you, and then you will know that I am the Lord.
(Ezek 16:63)	Then you will remember, be ashamed, and remain silent because of your disgrace when I make atonement for all you have done, declares the Sovereign Lord.’”
(Hos 1:10)	(2:1) However, in the future the number of the people of Israel will be like the sand of the sea which can be neither measured nor numbered. Although it was said to them, “You are not my people,” it will be said to them, “You are children of the living God!”
(Hos 1:11)	Then the people of Judah and the people of Israel will be gathered together. They will appoint for themselves one leader, and will flourish in the land. Certainly, the day of Jezreel will be great!
(Jer 33:7)	I will restore Judah and Israel and will rebuild them as they were in days of old.
(Jer 33:9)	All the nations will hear about all the good things which I will do to them. This city will bring me fame, honor, and praise before them for the joy that I bring it. The nations will tremble in awe at all the peace and prosperity that I will provide for it.’
(Jer 33:15)	In those days and at that time I will raise up for them a righteous descendant of David. “‘He will do what is just and right in the land.
(Jer 33:16)	Under his rule Judah will enjoy safety and Jerusalem will live in security. At that time Jerusalem will be called “The Lord has provided us with justice.”
(Jer 33:24)	“You have surely noticed what these people are saying, haven’t you? They are saying, ‘The Lord has rejected the two families of Israel and Judah that he chose.’ So they have little regard that my people will ever again be a nation.
(Jer 33:26)	Just as surely as I have done this, so surely will I never reject the descendants of Jacob. Nor will I ever refuse to choose one of my servant David’s descendants to rule over the descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Indeed, I will restore them and show mercy to them.”
(Jer 50:4)	“When that time comes,” says the Lord, “the people of Israel and Judah will return to the land together. They will come back with tears of repentance as they seek the Lord their God.
(Jer 50:5)	They will ask the way to Zion; they will turn their faces toward it. They will come and bind themselves to the Lord in a lasting covenant that will never be forgotten.
(Jer 50:19)	But I will restore the flock of Israel to their own pasture. They will graze on Mount Carmel and the land of Bashan. They will eat until they are full on the hills of Ephraim and the land of Gilead.
(Jer 50:20)	When that time comes, no guilt will be found in Israel. No sin will be found in Judah. For I will forgive those of them I have allowed to survive. I, the Lord, affirm it!’”
(Mic 2:12)	I will certainly gather all of you, O Jacob, I will certainly assemble those Israelites who remain. I will bring them together like sheep in a fold, like a flock in the middle of a pasture; they will be so numerous that they will make a lot of noise.
(Mic 2:13)	The one who can break through barriers will lead them out they will break out, pass through the gate, and leave. Their king will advance before them, The Lord himself will lead them.
(Ezek 36:11)	I will increase the number of people and animals on you; they will increase and be fruitful. I will cause you to be inhabited as in ancient times, and will do more good for you than at the beginning of your history. Then you will know that I am the Lord.
(Ezek 36:24)	“‘I will take you from the nations and gather you from all the countries; then I will bring you to your land.
(Ezek 36:26)	I will give you a new heart, and I will put a new spirit within you. I will remove the heart of stone from your body and give you a heart of flesh.
(Ezek 36:33)	“‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: In the day I cleanse you from all your sins, I will populate the cities and the ruins will be rebuilt.
(Luke 21:24)	They will fall by the edge of the sword and be led away as captives among all nations. Jerusalem will be trampled down by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled.
(Ezek 37:25)	They will live in the land I gave to my servant Jacob, in which your fathers lived; they will live in it – they and their children and their grandchildren forever. David my servant will be prince over them forever.
(Ezek 20:34)	I will bring you out from the nations, and will gather you from the lands where you are scattered, with a powerful hand and an outstretched arm and with an outpouring of rage!
(Ezek 20:35)	I will bring you into the wilderness of the nations, and there I will enter into judgment with you face to face.
(Ezek 20:37)	I will make you pass under the shepherd’s staff, and I will bring you into the bond of the covenant.
(Ezek 20:38)	I will eliminate from among you the rebels and those who revolt against me. I will bring them out from the land where they have been residing, but they will not come to the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am the Lord.
(Ezek 20:40)	For there on my holy mountain, the high mountain of Israel, declares the Sovereign Lord, all the house of Israel will serve me, all of them in the land. I will accept them there, and there I will seek your contributions and your choice gifts, with all your holy things.
(Ezek 20:41)	When I bring you out from the nations and gather you from the lands where you are scattered, I will accept you along with your soothing aroma. I will display my holiness among you in the sight of the nations.
(Ezek 20:44)	Then you will know that I am the Lord, when I deal with you for the sake of my reputation and not according to your wicked conduct and corrupt deeds, O house of Israel, declares the Sovereign Lord.’”
(Jer 32:41)	I will take delight in doing good to them. I will faithfully and wholeheartedly plant them firmly in the land.’
(Jer 32:37)	‘I will certainly regather my people from all the countries where I will have exiled them in my anger, fury, and great wrath. I will bring them back to this place and allow them to live here in safety.
(Ezek 34:23)	I will set one shepherd over them, and he will feed them – namely, my servant David. He will feed them and will be their shepherd.
(Ezek 34:24)	I, the Lord, will be their God, and my servant David will be prince among them; I, the Lord, have spoken!
(Ezek 34:28)	They will no longer be prey for the nations and the wild beasts will not devour them. They will live securely and no one will make them afraid.
(Ezek 34:29)	I will prepare for them a healthy planting. They will no longer be victims of famine in the land and will no longer bear the insults of the nations.
(Ezek 34:11)	“‘For this is what the Sovereign Lord says: Look, I myself will search for my sheep and seek them out.
(Ezek 34:16)	I will seek the lost and bring back the strays; I will bandage the injured and strengthen the sick, but the fat and the strong I will destroy. I will feed them – with judgment!
(Ezek 34:22)	I will save my sheep; they will no longer be prey. I will judge between one sheep and another.
(Hos 2:14)	However, in the future I will allure her; I will lead her back into the wilderness, and speak tenderly to her.
(Hos 2:15)	From there I will give back her vineyards to her, and turn the “Valley of Trouble” into an “Opportunity for Hope.” There she will sing as she did when she was young, when she came up from the land of Egypt.
(Hos 2:19)	I will commit myself to you forever; I will commit myself to you in righteousness and justice, in steadfast love and tender compassion.
(Hos 2:16)	“At that time,” declares the Lord, “you will call, ‘My husband’; you will never again call me, ‘My master.’
(2Cor 3:15)	But until this very day whenever Moses is read, a veil lies over their minds,
(2Cor 3:16)	but when one turns to the Lord, the veil is removed.
(Zech 2:10)	“Sing out and be happy, Zion my daughter! For look, I have come; I will settle in your midst,” says the Lord.
(Zech 2:12)	The Lord will take possession of Judah as his portion in the holy land and he will choose Jerusalem once again.
(Mic 5:3)	So the Lord will hand the people of Israel over to their enemies until the time when the woman in labor gives birth. Then the rest of the king’s countrymen will return to be reunited with the people of Israel.
(Mic 5:4)	He will assume his post and shepherd the people by the Lord’s strength, by the sovereign authority of the Lord his God. They will live securely, for at that time he will be honored even in the distant regions of the earth.
(Mic 5:7)	Those survivors from Jacob will live in the midst of many nations. They will be like the dew the Lord sends, like the rain on the grass, that does not hope for men to come or wait around for humans to arrive.
(Mic 5:13)	I will remove your idols and sacred pillars from your midst; you will no longer worship what your own hands made.
(Mic 7:14)	Shepherd your people with your rod, the flock that belongs to you, the one that lives alone in a thicket, in the midst of a pastureland. Allow them to graze in Bashan and Gilead, as they did in the old days.
(Mic 7:17)	They will lick the dust like a snake, like serpents crawling on the ground. They will come trembling from their strongholds to the Lord our God; they will be terrified of you.
(Zeph 3:9)	Know for sure that I will then enable the nations to give me acceptable praise. All of them will invoke the Lord’s name when they pray, and will worship him in unison.
(Obad 1:17)	But on Mount Zion there will be a remnant of those who escape, and it will be a holy place once again. The descendants of Jacob will conquer those who had conquered them.
(Obad 1:21)	Those who have been delivered will go up on Mount Zion in order to rule over Esau’s mountain. Then the Lord will reign as King!
(Hos 3:4)	For the Israelites must live many days without a king or prince, without sacrifice or sacred fertility pillar, without ephod or idols.
(Hos 3:5)	Afterward, the Israelites will turn and seek the Lord their God and their Davidic king. Then they will submit to the Lord in fear and receive his blessings in the future.
(Joel 3:1)	(4:1) For look! In those days and at that time I will return the exiles to Judah and Jerusalem.
(Joel 3:2)	Then I will gather all the nations, and bring them down to the valley of Jehoshaphat. I will enter into judgment against them there concerning my people Israel who are my inheritance, whom they scattered among the nations. They partitioned my land,
(Joel 3:17)	You will be convinced that I the Lord am your God, dwelling on Zion, my holy mountain. Jerusalem will be holy – conquering armies will no longer pass through it.
(Joel 3:20)	But Judah will reside securely forever, and Jerusalem will be secure from one generation to the next.
(Joel 3:7)	Look! I am rousing them from that place to which you sold them. I will repay you for what you have done!
(Joel 3:14)	Crowds, great crowds are in the valley of decision, for the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision!
(Joel 3:16)	The Lord roars from Zion; from Jerusalem his voice bellows out. The heavens and the earth shake. But the Lord is a refuge for his people; he is a stronghold for the citizens of Israel.
(Joel 3:18)	On that day the mountains will drip with sweet wine, and the hills will flow with milk. All the dry stream beds of Judah will flow with water. A spring will flow out from the temple of the Lord, watering the Valley of Acacia Trees.
(Joel 3:21)	I will avenge their blood which I had not previously acquitted. It is the Lord who dwells in Zion!
(Zech 10:6)	“I (says the Lord) will strengthen the kingdom of Judah and deliver the people of Joseph and will bring them back because of my compassion for them. They will be as though I had never rejected them, for I am the Lord their God and therefore I will hear them.
(Zech 10:8)	I will signal for them and gather them, for I have already redeemed them; then they will become as numerous as they were before.
(Zech 10:9)	Though I scatter them among the nations, they will remember in far-off places – they and their children will survive and return.
(Rom 11:30)	Just as you were formerly disobedient to God, but have now received mercy due to their disobedience,
(Rom 11:31)	so they too have now been disobedient in order that, by the mercy shown to you, they too may now receive mercy.
(Rom 11:2)	God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew! Do you not know what the scripture says about Elijah, how he pleads with God against Israel?
(Rom 11:12)	Now if their transgression means riches for the world and their defeat means riches for the Gentiles, how much more will their full restoration bring?
(Rom 11:15)	For if their rejection is the reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance be but life from the dead?
(Rom 11:23)	And even they – if they do not continue in their unbelief – will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again.
(Rom 11:24)	For if you were cut off from what is by nature a wild olive tree, and grafted, contrary to nature, into a cultivated olive tree, how much more will these natural branches be grafted back into their own olive tree?
(Rom 11:25)	For I do not want you to be ignorant of this mystery, brothers and sisters, so that you may not be conceited: A partial hardening has happened to Israel until the full number of the Gentiles has come in.
(Rom 11:29)	For the gifts and the call of God are irrevocable.
(Rom 11:32)	For God has consigned all people to disobedience so that he may show mercy to them all.
(Rom 11:33)	Oh, the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments and how unfathomable his ways!
(Jer 31:1)	At that time I will be the God of all the clans of Israel and they will be my people. I, the Lord, affirm it!”
(Jer 31:4)	I will rebuild you, my dear children Israel, so that you will once again be built up. Once again you will take up the tambourine and join in the happy throng of dancers.
(Jer 31:10)	Listen to the Lord’s message, O nations. Proclaim it in the faraway lands along the sea. Say, “The one who scattered Israel will regather them. He will watch over his people like a shepherd watches over his flock.”
(Jer 31:17)	Indeed, there is hope for your posterity. Your children will return to their own territory. I, the Lord, affirm it!
(Jer 31:31)	“Indeed, a time is coming,” says the Lord, “when I will make a new covenant with the people of Israel and Judah.
(Jer 31:33)	“But I will make a new covenant with the whole nation of Israel after I plant them back in the land,” says the Lord. “I will put my law within them and write it on their hearts and minds. I will be their God and they will be my people.
(Jer 31:38)	“Indeed a time is coming,” says the Lord, “when the city of Jerusalem will be rebuilt as my special city. It will be built from the Tower of Hananel westward to the Corner Gate.
(Zech 12:6)	On that day I will make the leaders of Judah like an igniter among sticks and a burning torch among sheaves, and they will burn up all the surrounding nations right and left. Then the people of Jerusalem will settle once more in their place, the city of Jerusalem.
(Zech 12:10)	“I will pour out on the kingship of David and the population of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and supplication so that they will look to me, the one they have pierced. They will lament for him as one laments for an only son, and there will be a bitter cry for him like the bitter cry for a firstborn.
(Amos 9:14)	I will bring back my people, Israel; they will rebuild the cities lying in rubble and settle down. They will plant vineyards and drink the wine they produce; they will grow orchards and eat the fruit they produce.
(Amos 9:15)	I will plant them on their land and they will never again be uprooted from the land I have given them,” says the Lord your God.
(Jer 30:9)	But they will be subject to the Lord their God and to the Davidic ruler whom I will raise up as king over them.
(Jer 30:10)	So I, the Lord, tell you not to be afraid, you descendants of Jacob, my servants. Do not be terrified, people of Israel. For I will rescue you and your descendants from a faraway land where you are captives. The descendants of Jacob will return to their land and enjoy peace. They will be secure and no one will terrify them.
＊	PART FOUR
＊	PROMISES OF CHRIST'S SECOND COMING -- THAT CHRIST WILL COME AGAIN
(1Cor 4:5)	So then, do not judge anything before the time. Wait until the Lord comes. He will bring to light the hidden things of darkness and reveal the motives of hearts. Then each will receive recognition from God.
(2Tim 4:8)	Finally the crown of righteousness is reserved for me. The Lord, the righteous Judge, will award it to me in that day – and not to me only, but also to all who have set their affection on his appearing.
(1Thess 4:16)	For the Lord himself will come down from heaven with a shout of command, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first.
(1Thess 4:17)	Then we who are alive, who are left, will be suddenly caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so we will always be with the Lord.
(Matt 24:42)	“Therefore stay alert, because you do not know on what day your Lord will come.
(John 14:28)	You heard me say to you, ‘I am going away and I am coming back to you.’ If you loved me, you would be glad that I am going to the Father, because the Father is greater than I am.
(1Thess 1:10)	and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus our deliverer from the coming wrath.
(Zech 12:10)	“I will pour out on the kingship of David and the population of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and supplication so that they will look to me, the one they have pierced. They will lament for him as one laments for an only son, and there will be a bitter cry for him like the bitter cry for a firstborn.
(Col 3:4)	When Christ (who is your life) appears, then you too will be revealed in glory with him.
(Job 19:25)	As for me, I know that my Redeemer lives, and that as the last he will stand upon the earth.
(Zech 14:4)	On that day his feet will stand on the Mount of Olives which lies to the east of Jerusalem, and the Mount of Olives will be split in half from east to west, leaving a great valley. Half the mountain will move northward and the other half southward.
(1Cor 11:26)	For every time you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord’s death until he comes.
(2Thess 3:5)	Now may the Lord direct your hearts toward the love of God and the endurance of Christ.
(Matt 24:30)	Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven, and all the tribes of the earth will mourn. They will see the Son of Man arriving on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.
(1John 3:2)	Dear friends, we are God’s children now, and what we will be has not yet been revealed. We know that whenever it is revealed we will be like him, because we will see him just as he is.
(1Pet 5:4)	Then when the Chief Shepherd appears, you will receive the crown of glory that never fades away.
(Rev 1:7)	(Look! He is returning with the clouds, and every eye will see him, even those who pierced him, and all the tribes on the earth will mourn because of him. This will certainly come to pass! Amen.)
(Mark 14:62)	“I am,” said Jesus, “and you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Power and coming with the clouds of heaven.”
(2Thess 1:7)	and to you who are being afflicted to give rest together with us when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels.
(John 14:3)	And if I go and make ready a place for you, I will come again and take you to be with me, so that where I am you may be too.
(Matt 24:27)	For just like the lightning comes from the east and flashes to the west, so the coming of the Son of Man will be.
(Titus 2:13)	as we wait for the happy fulfillment of our hope in the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ.
(Acts 1:11)	and said, “Men of Galilee, why do you stand here looking up into the sky? This same Jesus who has been taken up from you into heaven will come back in the same way you saw him go into heaven.”
(Matt 16:27)	For the Son of Man will come with his angels in the glory of his Father, and then he will reward each person according to what he has done.
(Matt 25:31)	“When the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne.
(Acts 3:20)	so that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord, and so that he may send the Messiah appointed for you – that is, Jesus.
(Acts 3:21)	This one heaven must receive until the time all things are restored, which God declared from times long ago through his holy prophets.
(Heb 9:28)	so also, after Christ was offered once to bear the sins of many, to those who eagerly await him he will appear a second time, not to bear sin but to bring salvation.
(Rev 22:12)	(Look ! I am coming soon, and my reward is with me to pay each one according to what he has done!
(Rev 22:20)	The one who testifies to these things says, “Yes, I am coming soon!” Amen! Come, Lord Jesus!
(1Thess 3:13)	so that your hearts are strengthened in holiness to be blameless before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints.
(1Cor 1:7)	so that you do not lack any spiritual gift as you wait for the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ.
(1Cor 1:8)	He will also strengthen you to the end, so that you will be blameless on the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
(Dan 7:13)	I was watching in the night visions, “And with the clouds of the sky one like a son of man was approaching. He went up to the Ancient of Days and was escorted before him.
(Dan 7:14)	To him was given ruling authority, honor, and sovereignty. All peoples, nations, and language groups were serving him. His authority is eternal and will not pass away. His kingdom will not be destroyed.
(Phil 3:20)	But our citizenship is in heaven – and we also eagerly await a savior from there, the Lord Jesus Christ,
(Phil 3:21)	who will transform these humble bodies of ours into the likeness of his glorious body by means of that power by which he is able to subject all things to himself.
(2Pet 3:3)	Above all, understand this: In the last days blatant scoffers will come, being propelled by their own evil urges
(2Pet 3:4)	and saying, “Where is his promised return? For ever since our ancestors died, all things have continued as they were from the beginning of creation.”
(2Pet 3:10)	But the day of the Lord will come like a thief; when it comes, the heavens will disappear with a horrific noise, and the celestial bodies will melt away in a blaze, and the earth and every deed done on it will be laid bare.
＊	CONCLUSION
＊	THAT GOD WILL PERFORM ALL HIS PROMISES
(Deut 7:9)	So realize that the Lord your God is the true God, the faithful God who keeps covenant faithfully with those who love him and keep his commandments, to a thousand generations,
(Ps 119:89)	O Lord, your instructions endure; they stand secure in heaven.
(Ps 119:90)	You demonstrate your faithfulness to all generations. You established the earth and it stood firm.
(Ps 119:160)	Your instructions are totally reliable; all your just regulations endure.
(Num 23:19)	God is not a man, that he should lie, nor a human being, that he should change his mind. Has he said, and will he not do it? Or has he spoken, and will he not make it happen?
(Heb 6:18)	so that we who have found refuge in him may find strong encouragement to hold fast to the hope set before us through two unchangeable things, since it is impossible for God to lie.
(Ps 18:30)	The one true God acts in a faithful manner; the Lord’s promise is reliable; he is a shield to all who take shelter in him.
(Heb 10:23)	And let us hold unwaveringly to the hope that we confess, for the one who made the promise is trustworthy.
(Isa 25:1)	O Lord, you are my God! I will exalt you in praise, I will extol your fame. For you have done extraordinary things, and executed plans made long ago exactly as you decreed.
(Ps 89:34)	I will not break my covenant or go back on what I promised.
(Isa 46:11)	who summons an eagle from the east, from a distant land, one who carries out my plan. Yes, I have decreed, yes, I will bring it to pass; I have formulated a plan, yes, I will carry it out.
(Ps 105:8)	He always remembers his covenantal decree, the promise he made to a thousand generations –
(Josh 23:14)	“Look, today I am about to die. You know with all your heart and being that not even one of all the faithful promises the Lord your God made to you is left unfulfilled; every one was realized – not one promise is unfulfilled!
(1Kgs 8:56)	“The Lord is worthy of praise because he has made Israel his people secure just as he promised! Not one of all the faithful promises he made through his servant Moses is left unfulfilled!
(Isa 54:10)	Even if the mountains are removed and the hills displaced, my devotion will not be removed from you, nor will my covenant of friendship be displaced,” says the Lord, the one who has compassion on you.
(2Tim 2:13)	If we are unfaithful, he remains faithful, since he cannot deny himself.
(2Pet 3:9)	The Lord is not slow concerning his promise, as some regard slowness, but is being patient toward you, because he does not wish for any to perish but for all to come to repentance.
(Rom 4:21)	He was fully convinced that what God promised he was also able to do.
(2Cor 1:20)	For every one of God’s promises are “Yes” in him; therefore also through him the “Amen” is spoken, to the glory we give to God.
(Titus 1:2)	in hope of eternal life, which God, who does not lie, promised before time began.
(1Sam 15:29)	The Preeminent One of Israel does not go back on his word or change his mind, for he is not a human being who changes his mind.”
(Deut 4:31)	(for he is a merciful God), he will not let you down or destroy you, for he cannot forget the covenant with your ancestors that he confirmed by oath to them.
(Ps 9:10)	Your loyal followers trust in you, for you, Lord, do not abandon those who seek your help.
(2Pet 1:4)	Through these things he has bestowed on us his precious and most magnificent promises, so that by means of what was promised you may become partakers of the divine nature, after escaping the worldly corruption that is produced by evil desire.
